the text of the parliament's resolution on the digital single market strategy contains many welcome slogans on competitiveness, consumer protection, jobs, trade development and gdp growth. of course it matters. i also want to draw attention to what is not in the document. these are the negative effects of the digitalisation of markets. i'm talking about the disappearance of local markets, the homogenization of products, the decline in quality, and of course the climate impact of human activities that are focused solely on gdp growth. of course, some may say that these are the natural consequences of globalization. and they will not be very wrong, but we should also, when we are considering a digital single market strategy, include measures to encourage consumers to make their online purchasing decisions with information about the impact of their decision on small producers and the climate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's examination of the immunity of mr czesław adam ascher. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate to authorise the prosecution of mr czesław adam askierski, member of the european parliament, for an administrative offence speeding. according to the polish road traffic inspectorate, at 20.22 on 10 january 2015, c. a. aszerski was driving a car at a speed exceeding the speed limit in the settlement and travelling at 77 km/h with a speed limit of 50 km/h. the general inspectorate further states that, in response to the summons sent to mr assierski on 19 january 2015, mr assierski sent copies of his mep identity card, his certificate of election to the european parliament and a statement acknowledging that he had driven the vehicle during the specified period. it is apparent from the file that mr askierskis admitted that he had driven the vehicle during the period prescribed, but did not indicate on the relevant form whether he agreed or disagreed with the imposition of the fine. it is clear from the circumstances of the case that the suspicion of having committed an administrative offence and the subsequent administrative prosecution had nothing to do with mr assierski's duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines another question of immunity for czesław adam aschersky for a traffic offence. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate to authorise the prosecution of mr czesław adam askierski, member of the european parliament, for an administrative offence speeding. according to the polish road traffic inspectorate, at 11.19 on 19 april 2015 the speed camera in the town of stopnica recorded that mr c.a. siekierski was driving at 79 km/h in the zone where the speed limit is 50 km/h. the general inspectorate further states that, in response to the summons sent to mr assierski on 29 april 2015, mr assierski sent copies of his mep identity card, his certificate of election to the european parliament and a statement acknowledging that he had driven the vehicle during the specified period. it is apparent from the file that mr askierskis admitted that he had driven the vehicle during the period prescribed, but did not indicate on the relevant form whether he agreed or disagreed with the imposition of the fine. it is clear from the circumstances of the case that the suspicion of having committed an administrative offence and the subsequent administrative prosecution had nothing to do with mr assierski's duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. in order to ensure a uniform and effective application of all measures adopted in the 2012-2014 recovery plan throughout the european union, this proposal aims to incorporate them into a regulation. the proposal includes technical measures such as those related to the transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna, the catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the regional observer programme of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. iccat has the power to adopt decisions (recommendations) on the conservation and management of fisheries resources within its area of competence; these acts are binding; they must be transposed into european union law. bluefin tuna is the most important species to be regulated by iccat. in order to ensure a uniform and effective application of all measures adopted in the 2012-2014 recovery plan throughout the european union, this proposal aims to incorporate them into a regulation. the proposal includes technical measures such as those related to the transfer and caging of live bluefin tuna (including measures related to the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the quantities of bluefin tuna and the quantities of fish released), the catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the commission's plan. i would even say that the commission is proposing measures that are too regressive. many years of poorly controlled fishing in the atlantic, the mediterranean and other seas have meant that many of the fish that are nutritious and essential to our ecosystems will soon be seen only in textbooks and museums. it's time to curb your appetites, and especially those of industry. at least so we have something to fish for in the future. and it's time to think about more environmentally friendly and responsible food sources.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted in favour of the report because bluefin tuna is the most important regulated species. in order to restore tuna stocks, a gradual reduction in the allowable catch is envisaged. the recommendations presented are intended to be applied uniformly throughout the eu, rather than to re-launch discussions on decisions already taken after lengthy negotiations. the proposal includes technical measures such as rules on the transport of live bluefin tuna, as well as requirements relating to the reporting of catches and the implementation of the regional observer programme. these provisions are worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, in which the european parliament expresses its opinion on the annual report on the european union's competition policy. in its 2014 competition policy report, the commission underlined that this was the year of a new start for europe, as commission president juncker stated in his commission's mandate letter for the new term that competition policy should also make an appropriate contribution to the implementation of the agenda for jobs and growth, including in the areas of the digital single market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax avoidance. the new eu competition policy guidelines could be applied as from november 2014, and this raises expectations that in the future not only the current competition policy will be developed, but also the priorities will be revised. the european parliament has so far only participated in competition law matters by means of the consultation procedure. its influence, compared with that of the commission and the council, is therefore unfortunately limited. for this reason, parliament has repeatedly called for the application of the ordinary legislative procedure and competition law under the lisbon treaty. this seems necessary because, in the rapporteur's view, the commission, as a competition authority with strong enforcement powers, cannot simultaneously provide a legal basis in the form of guidelines and then be responsible for implementing its own guidelines and applying heavy financial penalties.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate the commission on the excellent work it has done in preparing this review of competition policy supervision. i would also like to draw attention to one important theme that is not in it, but which i very much hope will be there next year. this is an assessment of the situation in the primary food production sector in the european union. i think it is no secret that the european union is in a critical situation in the milk, pigmeat and certain other food sectors. farmers and other primary producers are suffering greatly from the decline in demand due to external factors. nevertheless, there are many cases where processors and traders take advantage of this situation and abuse their dominant position on the market by lowering purchase prices. this is the collapse of the european union village. i very much hope that the 2016 competition policy report will tell us how the commission has dealt with the many cases of competition abuse, how it has defended fair competition in the agricultural sector and how it has punished those who have abused their dominant position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the role of cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's core values. this report is based on a common agreement between the ministers of education, which provides a basis for efforts to prevent and combat marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve equal opportunities for all. i agree with the specific recommendations that action is needed at all levels of government as well as at eu level including a greater focus on culture in the implementation of external relations and the eu's development agenda.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the european union is going through a special period in its history, when the notion of identity and commonality is being challenged, reshaped and defended. this process is accompanied by strong emotions arising from the diversity of opinions and political attitudes. the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 is a significant statement, and its call for action by member states to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education and training is to be welcomed. the eu education ministers have also clearly affirmed the value of pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and just societies, in which women and men are wholeheartedly committed to solidarity and equality in order to ensure respect for the eu's core values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this report is an attempt to follow the general agreement of the ministers of education, which has focused the efforts needed to prevent and combat marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve the basis of equal opportunities for all. the report identifies opportunities alongside challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all levels of government as well as at eu level including a greater focus on culture in the implementation of external relations and the eu's development agenda. it also recognises the unique role that culture can play in promoting peace, resolving conflicts and preventing crises.
in writing. ‒ this report is very important. we are now witnessing, perhaps even participating, in a clash of cultures. unfortunately, i fear that the report is too late to make political recommendations and practical steps were needed more than a decade ago, when it became clear that european values were not acceptable to all the cultures living in europe. i support this report, but i regret that its authors place too much faith in dialogue, even with representatives of subcultures which openly disdain european values.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to review the eu financial services regulation. the financial and debt crisis that erupted in 2007 and 2008 required comprehensive action by european legislators and international standard-setting bodies. since the financial and debt crisis of 2007 and 2008, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the eu financial services sector to restore financial stability, strengthen customer protection and build on lessons learned from the crisis. this report assesses this legislative work, addresses shortcomings in financial services legislation and raises concerns. i agree that financial services legislation must take account of proportionality, which needs to be given more attention. full implementation of existing legislation and strong enforcement in the member states are also needed. it is important that financial stability and customer protection remain priorities for the legislator, with a greater emphasis on a consistent and risk-based approach.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the financial and debt crisis of 2007 and 2008 required a comprehensive response from european legislators and international standard-setting bodies. since then, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the eu financial services sector to restore financial stability, strengthen customer protection and build on lessons learned from the crisis. a number of legislative acts have already been successfully implemented within the deadlines for their implementation and application, which have already passed or are about to pass. this own-initiative report is a first step in assessing this legislative work, addressing the identified weaknesses in financial services legislation and reporting on the issues of concern that have emerged, in particular due to the insufficient analysis of the impact of the individual legislative instruments and their interaction, as well as the overall impact of all legislation not yet fully assessed. the european parliament believes that the implementation of important new commission initiatives such as the investment package and the capital markets union will be better served by building on existing financial services regulation, which is effective and efficient.
in writing. ‒ the financial services regulation is a highly sensitive area requiring careful and deliberate action. at the same time, we must not forget that one of the european union's core objectives - to create an area of free movement of capital - has not yet been fully achieved. at least as long as there are different restrictions on capital movements within the eu. this document is an important step towards creating a single european area for the movement of capital. the only point i would like to make to him is that the document conveys the idea that consumer protection does not require a lot of information. quality is not enough. but who will set the standards for the quality of that information? that is not the case. will the financial institution itself do this? if so, do we believe that they will ensure a high quality of consumer information? it is true that this provision of the regulation is purely informative and does not have legal force. that is why i am voting against and i want to believe that consumer protection standards will not be lowered in any way. this is particularly true in a sensitive and potentially loss-making sector such as financial services.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to carry out a european survey on women entrepreneurs. the eu is still lagging behind in terms of entrepreneurship: in 2009, the eu-27 entrepreneurship rate was 12%, while china and the us were 27% and 21% respectively. women's entrepreneurship deserves particular attention in this context, as the eu is still not achieving equality in economic independence and the employment rate of women, at 59.6% in the eu-28 in 2014, is neither in line with the europe 2020 employment target of 75% nor close to the employment rate of men (70.1%). unfortunately, the first obstacle to entrepreneurship is the difficult balance between work and personal life. women are also less likely to use external financing, such as bank loans and supplier credit, and are therefore more likely to be more expensive to finance. this is partly because women have less knowledge of available financing options, are more cautious than men about taking economic risks, or lack the financial management experience of their male counterparts. despite the enormous complexity of the problem, it is necessary to address the issue of women entrepreneurs who are discriminated against by financial service providers when trying to obtain credit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament on entrepreneurship and career opportunities for european women. the differences between men and women in terms of career prospects in business are still evident. in 2012, women accounted for only 31% of all self-employed citizens in the eu-28. women entrepreneurs are likely to start their own companies with less experience than men. women tend to choose sectors related to human health and social work or education when starting their businesses, while men tend to work in construction, transport and ict sector groups. given that most of the latter sectors have a higher rate of entrepreneurship and all have a higher economic added value, it is not surprising that female entrepreneurs earned 6% less than men in 2012. in addition, their activity levels remain lower than those of men: 23% of women and 30% of men are employed in the eu-28. european women seem to choose entrepreneurship for other reasons as well. women often say they are forced to do this because entrepreneurship allows them to combine work and caring responsibilities, such as childcare or care of the elderly, and provides more opportunities to work at home.
in writing. ‒ the i want to point out that this question is not as one-sided as it may appear. i fully agree that more female entrepreneurship would make a significant contribution to our collective aim of making europe more competitive. on the other hand, why are we only talking about entrepreneurship? not everyone has the desire or ability to develop their own business, do they? many good and honest people do fine work for hire in public administration or in non-governmental organizations. and this is not a business. and the skills or abilities required are different. however, working in public administration or in non-governmental organisations also contributes to a better europe. i support this report, but i would like to point out that it is not in the right format. we should not just talk about women entrepreneurs. we need to talk about their greater participation in the labor market, in the aggregate, in the labor market, which includes both business and the public and the non-governmental sectors.
in writing. ‒ i thank mr plura for his well-drafted report. i believe that this document is very timely as youth unemployment in europe is one of the pressing challenges which requires a prompt response and concrete solutions. taking into account the fact that there are approximately 2 million unfilled vacancies in the eu, i think that the idea to get better at making young people’s abilities and skills correspond to available jobs through improved cooperation between businesses, representatives of the education sector, employment services and authorities, needs to be implemented as soon as possible. moreover, in order to avoid young people experiencing delays in access to the jobs market and extended episodes of unemployment, the eu should examine the best practices in the world of school career guidance systems, where schoolchildren are observed from an early school phase to the first steps in the labour market. likewise high-quality internships could be a good solution for the smooth transition to the job market as well.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to develop individual skills and to disseminate knowledge and skills in order to combat youth unemployment. there are now 4.5 million young unemployed in the european union, and with over 7 million young europeans out of work, studying or studying. lack of skills for the jobs offered and mismatches in education and training are important factors in youth unemployment. the development of individual skills is one of the key elements of integrated employment and social policies and that skills can be used to achieve long-term economic growth, increase european competitiveness, combat unemployment and increase the integration of european companies. i support calls for education institutions, businesses and civil society, especially youth organisations, to work more closely together to better match skills to labour market needs. i support calls for member states, regional and local authorities, together with the social partners and training providers, to adopt and implement strategies for skills development and needs forecasting. it is important that education and training providers and enterprises work together to develop qualifications certificates that accurately reflect real skills.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament seeks solutions to the high level of youth unemployment in europe. the very low level of youth unemployment is one of the biggest problems in the eu today, with almost 5 million young people out of work. at the same time, there are 2 million job vacancies. this situation poses a serious threat to social cohesion and economic development in the eu. the following factors should be taken into account in the analysis of this situation: globalisation, demographic change, economic crises, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work. business creation and self-employment are also opportunities to participate in the labour market. skill development is a multi-faceted process requiring a holistic approach and transcending sectoral policy boundaries. changes in the labour market require more flexible education systems that provide opportunities to complement and develop knowledge and skills at all stages of a professional career. opportunities to enter and stay in the labour market are divided into two types of skills: general skills (adaptability, learning to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, communication skills) and specific skills related to specific duties or jobs. due to differences in the labour markets of the member states, it is also necessary to determine the level of management that must identify and define the most effective tools for skills needs.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment in the european union stands at 21%, slightly below the level of the financial crisis, but still high. beyond the first year, the focus is on finding ways to integrate young people into the labour market. i think that alongside the number of young people who are out of work today, we should be seriously concerned about their skills and education. the world is moving forward at a rapid pace, and new business sectors are emerging, which require not only professional knowledge but also creativity and inventiveness to develop or create. while education policy is a matter for the member states, it is necessary to look at good examples of countries where education systems allow for an emphasis on not only knowledge and education but also on the development of the whole person, where new ways of creating the educational process are sought. i would like to draw attention to the results of the programme for the international assessment of students (pisa) studies, which show the shortcomings of eu countries in preparing young people for life. i voted in favour of this resolution because all the measures listed are important in tackling youth unemployment. but the eu needs to wake up and focus on the professional development of young people, and to assess whether the existing education systems are the fairest and most effective way to create an educated, courageous and creative society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe it provides a solid foundation for implementation of the digital single market strategy for europe. technology is becoming an increasingly important part of our everyday lives and will continue to be in the near future, therefore we must aim to set the right regulatory framework which would satisfy consumers’, businesses’ and states’ interests and needs. i am very pleased that this report seeks to support digital innovation and entrepreneurship. this means that technology would not only enable consumers and businesses to have a better access to products and services but also enhance growth and jobs. secondly, technology and innovation can help europe to be more environmental, which is very important if we want to achieve the goals set by the paris climate change agreement. thirdly, digitalisation can help society and business to get easier access to information and provide a tool to modernise and improve governance and administration across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to remove barriers to the digital single market, to prohibit unjustified geo-blocking and price discrimination, and to promote innovation and better regulation of the sharing economy. i agree that it is necessary to create favourable conditions for the flourishing of innovation, the creation and development of new businesses, by developing e-government services and funding at eu and country level. the ep also stresses the need to develop the latest technologies such as big data, cloud computing, the internet of things and three-dimensional printing. i agree that the possibility to shop online in the eu market should not be restricted by the consumer's address or the country of issuance of the credit card. the european parliament is convinced of this. it is necessary to prohibit such unjustified practices, as well as unfair price discrimination based on geographical location, and to ensure the free movement of content, goods or services lawfully acquired online, while ensuring equal protection of consumers, whether online or offline.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines the creation of a single european digital market. on 6 may 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a communication on a digital strategy for europe, which envisages the implementation of 16 initiatives by the end of 2016. by combining the digital single market and the single market, eu legislators have learned of the enormous potential for eu entrepreneurs and businesses to thrive and for the eu labour market to fully recover from the economic crisis and related measures. the innovation in the digital sector is changing the way citizens interact, share, consume and even behave, and therefore offers new opportunities for both businesses and citizens. the more active use of digital technologies can further increase citizens' access to information and culture, improve their employment opportunities and give them greater freedom of choice in products. it can also help to modernise and improve governance and administration in the eu and its member states. the promotion of a dynamic economy is essential to ensure the flourishing of innovation and the development of innovative enterprises, and this is the objective that the european commission and the member states should focus on. more needs to be done to promote an entrepreneurial culture, including innovative business models, and to ensure stronger links between the various successful european innovation hubs.
in writing. ‒ the i fully support the aim of promoting the development of a european digital market. digital services and their impact on global competitiveness can only be compared to the dawn of the industrial age. countries that failed to respond to the emergence of industrial production or to stimulate its expansion in the 18th and 19th centuries were late to the industrial age and therefore had difficulty in gaining insight. and no natural physical quantity, such as the size of the territory, the richness of the culture or the long history, could compensate for the fact that the state was not able to start industrialization in time. the same applies to the digital market. if we do not create the conditions for the development of digital business, the conditions that will allow european companies to become the leaders of the global digital market, we will lose the digital race. and no amount of eu territory, cultural heritage or current prosperity will help us. i therefore welcome the document drawn up by this parliament on its own initiative, which highlights the key challenges for the digital market. it is not only a call for the reduction of administrative constraints on business, but also a call for another important element: the quality of management. it is with the help of digital technologies that we can and should ensure the functioning of the public administration system, which will make it possible to increase europe's competitiveness and give citizens a reason to be proud of their home countries member states of the european union and the european union as a whole.
in writing. there is a certain context to the situation in poland. until then, the ruling parties had appointed loyalists to positions of responsibility. the former judges of the constitutional tribunal were appointed before the expiry of the term of office of the former judges. in this way, the previous government ensured that, if it lost the elections (as it did), its appointees would remain on the constitutional tribunal. unlike now, this has not caught the attention of the eu institutions and human rights organisations, and such double standards are intolerable. however, it must be acknowledged that the new authorities' choice to continue the negative practice that has developed in poland is inappropriate and should be stopped. however, in a speech to the european parliament, prime minister beata szydlo dispelled doubts about the possible undemocratic processes in poland. it reaffirmed that poland would remain a responsible, supportive eu member, respecting european values and legislation. at the same time, it clearly stated that the legitimately elected authorities of the citizens of poland would preserve their right to carry out reforms. i believe that the prime minister and her team are taking a responsible approach not only to their responsibility as citizens, but also to their own responsibilities as part of the eu community. yes, it is essential that the rule of law remains a fundamental principle of polish politics. but any future anxiety must be dispelled by respectful discussion, not by the unremembered accusations or threats that have been repeatedly heard from the lips of a number of high-ranking officials in recent months.
in writing. i thank you for the priorities of the dutch presidency for the next six months, but i am also pleased with the initiatives to combat poverty, especially child poverty in europe. the fight against child poverty should be one of the main priorities of our social agenda. the paradox is that in the european union, the most developed continent, more than one in four children live in poverty, and in many countries poverty is more threatening to children than to adults. we urgently need new concrete measures, such as the child guarantee proposed by parliament, under which every child can receive free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. this could be a similar measure to the youth employment initiative already in place. we in the european parliament are very much looking forward to the dutch presidency's support in bringing the child guarantee into being as soon as possible, with a budget for it. we must all work together to tackle poverty at an early age, so that all children have equal opportunities and are not condemned to poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to launch the automatic exchange of vehicle registration data (vrd) with latvia.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented a final set of procedural rights, including three proposals for directives to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. these three directives will allow the completion of the existing eu legal framework relating to the right of defence of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. these are the main measures to ensure that a case is heard fairly throughout the european union and that the rights of the defence are fully respected. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle for preventing arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings. this proposal emphasises the need to refer to the european convention on human rights, the eu charter of fundamental rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. i also support the proposals to clarify the scope of the directive: the persons to whom it applies, the period of application and its material scope.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines how to ensure certain elements of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at the trial of a criminal. this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to ensure in the european union certain elements of the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings pending a final conviction and to strengthen the right to be present at the trial. the commission has carried out an impact assessment and has examined this issue in depth, concluding that measures are necessary to address certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in order to further safeguard this fundamental right. in order to achieve the common objectives of the measures already adopted (including, most importantly, the directive on the right to a lawyer) concerning procedural rights in criminal proceedings, a certain minimum level of protection of the principle of the presumption of innocence must be ensured in all eu member states. the present proposal will also help to strengthen the safeguards for legal persons involved in investigations conducted by the eppo. the recently submitted proposal for a council regulation establishes that a suspect has all the rights provided for in eu law, as well as other rights directly enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, applicable under existing national law, and expressly refers to the right to the presumption of innocence.
in writing. ‒ mr president, as a member of the committee on civil liberties, i voted in favour of the report. the directive we are discussing today in parliament will complete the eu legal framework on the right of defence of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the directive contains the measures necessary to ensure the fairness of the trial in the european union and full respect for the right of defence guaranteed by the treaties of the european union, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the since 1989, the placing of personal protective equipment on the eu market has been fully harmonised under council directive 89/686/eec. for the past 25 years, this directive has ensured the functioning of the single market. nevertheless, the existing legislation on personal protective equipment needs to be updated in line with the new legislative framework (nlf), which is a set of measures to rationalise and simplify the rules on goods in the single market. given the complexity and duplication of the current regulatory requirements, this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between operators and introduces common definitions. the powers of market surveillance authorities to monitor and return unsafe goods placed on the common market should also be clarified.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to update the personal protective equipment directive, which has been in force for the last 25 years. while the current legislative requirements are complex and duplicative, this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between operators and introduces common definitions. the european parliament's ex-ante impact assessment of this proposal noted that the commission's decision to adapt the scope of the original directive was of concern. parliament does not consider that a major adjustment of scope is necessary, as the main objective of this draft proposal is to ensure the proper functioning and implementation of the regulatory framework rather than to achieve its objectives. therefore, in order to ensure legal clarity for operators in this sector, the rapporteur sought to have a scope similar to that of the original directive. in order to ensure the swift conclusion of the negotiations on this document, parliament considers that it is necessary to accept the majority of the council's proposals for aligning the proposal with the new legal framework.
in writing. ‒ the since the scope and essential health and safety requirements and the conformity assessment procedures have to be uniform in all member states, they should be introduced by the method proposed in the report. directive 89/686/eec should therefore be replaced by a regulation, which would be an appropriate legal instrument to help establish clear and detailed provisions which do not give rise to different interpretations by the member states. our priority as parliament was to propose amendments to ensure that the existing directive does not give rise to interpretations which could in any way affect the effectiveness and reliability of the law. the basic premise is that only highly effective measures can ensure the safety of workers, taking into account that accidents at work are very often caused not only by the failure to use safety measures but also by their incorrect use. any proposal that can improve the safety of citizens, and in particular workers, is worthy of a vote of support.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to amend directive 2009/142/ec, which ensures the free movement of gas appliances and which makes a significant contribution to the establishment and functioning of the common market and to the harmonisation of conditions for placing gas appliances on the market and putting them into service. the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy, with 476 000 people employed in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from portable stoves to large-scale boilers, and there are currently 470 million gas appliances in the eu and more are being produced. i agree that the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the overall political commitment to better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment. it lays down clear and detailed rules which will apply uniformly and simultaneously throughout the union. in particular, the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers must be uniform in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the proposal for a regulation on gaseous fuel burning appliances, which aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive, which ensures the free movement of gas appliances, is an example of union harmonisation legislation. this directive makes a significant contribution to the establishment and functioning of the common market and harmonises the conditions under which appliances burning gaseous fuels falling within its scope are placed on the market and/or put into service in view of the risks to gas safety and the rational use of energy. directive 2009/142/ec lays down the essential requirements with which appliances burning gaseous fuels must comply in order to be placed on the eu market. the gas sector plays an important role in the european union's economy, with 476 000 people employed in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from portable stoves to boilers for large buildings, and there are currently 470 million gas appliances in the eu and more are being sold every year, with more than 30 million units sold.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in this regulation. as regards rolling stock, this regulation also provides for full harmonisation of the essential requirements with which they have to comply. this regulation repeals and replaces directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 on the installation of a passenger line on a road.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations, which is a model of european union harmonisation legislation. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in this regulation. as regards rolling stock, this regulation also provides for full harmonisation of the essential requirements with which they have to comply. the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the overall political commitment to better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment. the decision to make this amendment was taken in view of the need to ensure uniform implementation throughout the european union. since this regulation provides for full harmonisation, member states may not impose stricter or additional requirements in their legislation. however, member states will continue to have the right to regulate other aspects of cableway installations, such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection. in this respect, the choice of a regulation is welcome, as it will avoid unnecessary costs of transposition into national law and will introduce clear and detailed rules that will apply uniformly throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the delegated act on the system of preferences for the common customs tariff. the commission is empowered to provide that a requesting country is granted a special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance by including it in the list of countries benefiting from gsp+. the applicant country has to fulfil certain conditions in order to become a gsp+ country and this status is not granted automatically. the committee on the application of standards of the international labour organisation, in its report, listed the kyrgyz republic among the countries whose competent authorities have still not fulfilled the necessary conditions. the government of the kyrgyz republic did not participate in the discussions on the implementation of the relevant commitments of its country. the main shortcomings are: persistent and widespread torture and ill-treatment of detainees, persistent failure to carry out prompt, impartial and thorough investigations, failure to provide all basic legal guarantees to all detainees, in particular those subject to remand in custody, etc. as the monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions have identified significant deficiencies in relation to certain bst+ relevant conventions, i therefore accept the objection to the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 applying the gsp scheme.
in writing. ‒ the vote rejected the following resolution in which the european parliament examines the commission's mandate to grant a special incentive for sustainable development and good governance to a requesting country, in this case kyrgyzstan, by including it on the list of beneficiary countries. the european parliament notes that the monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions have identified significant deficiencies in relation to certain relevant conventions and considers that these deficiencies constitute a serious breach that impedes the effective implementation of the relevant conventions. both the committee against torture, the committee on the elimination of racial discrimination and the committee on the rights of the child all identified violations of human rights and freedoms and various shortcomings in their reports.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of rejecting the ec decision on the sugar content of baby food as it did not take into account the global recommendations. although the world health organisation recommends that sugar should not provide more than 10% of the energy content of infant formula, the use and distribution of infant formulae containing up to 30% of the energy content of sugar is currently permitted in the eu. i agree that the sugar content of baby food should be significantly reduced, in line with the who recommendation. i agree that the labelling and distribution of processed baby foods should clearly indicate that these products are not suitable for infants under 6 months of age, as it is recommended that such infants be fed exclusively on breast milk. i also support calls for a ban on the use of genetically modified organisms and nanotechnologies in baby food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament examines the composition and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. the commission has not submitted to parliament and the council a report on infant formula as provided for in article 12 of regulation (eu) no 609/2013, which is a prerequisite for the development of national strategies to reduce childhood obesity. the european parliament considers that this regulation does not provide for sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from obesity and that the maximum sugar levels should be significantly reduced, taking into account the recommendations of the world health organisation (who). in addition, the general principle of strict intolerance to pesticides should apply, taking into account the high endocrine vulnerability of infants and young children. any derogation from the principle of total intolerance to pesticides should be clearly listed in the annex to the regulation, which should be updated regularly in order to keep the maximum levels lower in the light of new scientific evidence on the health effects of the active substances and their metabolites. the european parliament also proposes that the labelling and distribution provisions should be reconsidered in the light of the world health assembly (who) recommendations on foods for infants and young children.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the implementation of the colombian peace process and the final peace agreement. i agree that it is necessary for the member states of the european union to set up a trust fund to provide post-conflict support and to allow community and civil society organisations to participate, and to take into account the priorities identified by the victims: truth, justice, reparation and guarantees that the conflict will not be repeated. both the colombian government and the farc must make a political effort to reconcile their opposing positions by gradually creating an environment conducive to compromise that will allow for a lasting and durable peace. it is also essential that the pursuit of peace is accompanied by a strong commitment to combating inequality and poverty, to addressing in a fair manner the problems of displaced persons and communities, to access decent work, and to the recognition of labour and social rights throughout colombia. the positive aspect is that the colombian military doctrine will be revised in order to respond effectively and quickly to new challenges arising from the conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on support for the peace process in colombia. ending this internal conflict, which has lasted for more than 50 years and claimed millions of victims, and securing a lasting and lasting peace in colombia is a priority not only for this country but also for the european union and the international community, as evidenced by the many statements of support for the peace process by various countries, regional and international organisations, including the european union itself. welcomes and supports the agreements reached so far between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia aiming at peace in colombia, and takes note of the agreements on comprehensive rural reform, political activism and openness to democracy in order to build peace, as well as the agreements on tackling the illicit drugs problem and the establishment of a special peace court, including the establishment of a truth, coexistence and conflict prevention commission and a special unit responsible for the search for missing persons during or as a result of the conflict, and a unit for the investigation and prosecution of criminal groups; parliament expressed its wish that the negotiations be concluded as soon as possible and that the conflict be brought to a final end, and be recorded in the modern history of colombia as a real success, and to this end it called on all parties, all political forces in colombia and the entire colombian society to contribute positively to bringing an end to the violence.
madam president, how could it be that the association agreements, which aim to promote peace, stability and prosperity, can be against someone’s interests? those who sit in the kremlin say exactly this: it is against russia. why is this so? for one basic reason: the rule of law and democracy next door is so much in contrast to what is happening in russia today. the choice for georgia, moldova and ukraine is this: either europeanisation or being embraced by ‘russkiy mir’. in this context, i wish to stress the following. i call on the georgian government to cherish freedom of the media and fully respect the independence of the constitutional and other courts. i urge the new moldovan government, appointed just two hours ago, not to waste time in tackling reforms that are so long—awaited, and i remind the ukrainian government of the ideals of the maidan and i call on them finally to start cutting the heads of the beast named corruption.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, colleagues, free trade agreements and other agreements of this kind - association agreements - are among the few effective instruments of the european union's external relations. the european union is committed in its founding treaties to extending the area of freedom, democracy and good governance worldwide. in exchange, we offer great trade opportunities with the european union. i would remind you that georgia, moldova and ukraine are very close neighbours. their stability and prosperity are one of the conditions for peace throughout europe. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the commission to be more lenient towards the efforts of the partner countries, to be more of a helper to help the partner countries achieve their objectives, and not to be too quick to punish the slightest mistake.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is going through a very difficult period. the uncontrolled flow of immigrants, the radicalisation of eu citizens, terrorist attacks and the constant threat of terrorist attacks require a new and decisive approach to european security. for the first time in the history of the eu, article 42 of the eu treaty was invoked to request military assistance, but as we can see, there is no clear procedure in the european union for implementing the provisions of this article. the european union must act as a matter of urgency in the field of the common security and defence policy. we need a very clear military structure at eu level, with clear strategic tasks and the right capabilities to ensure collective defence.
in writing. ‒ the the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo was signed in strasbourg on 27 october by vice-president federica mogherini and prime minister isa mustafa. the national assembly of the republic of kosovo ratified the agreement without delay on 2 november 2015. the saa establishes contractual relations that provide for improved political dialogue, closer integration of trade and new forms of cooperation. it covers a wide range of sectors, including respect for and the strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. the saa also contains provisions to promote the application of european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property, consumer protection and the establishment of a free trade area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo is a very important first formal step towards the integration of the republic of kosovo into europe. the european parliament hopes that relations between the republic of kosovo and the eu will continue to be strengthened, including through the urgent introduction of a visa-free regime for kosovo citizens. parliament also called on the council to adopt a decision on the signing and conclusion of the framework agreement on kosovo's participation in eu programmes, which will strengthen cooperation between kosovo and the eu in various sectors. these programmes should focus on specific areas consistent with the commitments made by kosovo in its european path and should be implemented in a transparent and prompt manner. this agreement is an essential document in the stabilisation and association process. it sets out rights and obligations and is a powerful incentive for reform and institutionalisation. this agreement will facilitate investment, growth, business development, strengthening and good governance through the application of european standards and the alignment of legislation with eu law, including the establishment of a free trade area. it also provides opportunities to strengthen people-to-people and expert contacts in sectors such as education, environment, fight against crime and illicit trafficking, culture and provides for further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing to ensuring stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ as you know, eu enlargement and the process of emulating it association and stabilisation agreements are one of the main and, without a doubt, the most successful instruments of the european union's external policy. the association agreement with kosovo was also designed to achieve a similar objective in exchange for stability and the commitment of all political forces in kosovo to peace, the eu offered a package of assistance measures that could eventually lead to membership. the eu has partially achieved its objective kosovo, even if unrecognised by some member states, is democratic and stable. it was just a matter of making sure he got rich. but here the main task is for the kosovars themselves to govern their own country. the eu can only provide the necessary expertise. i am voting in favour of this proposal and at the same time i call on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of this agreement. the eu's initial objective of stability in kosovo has already been achieved. but we still have to help the kosovars themselves to make kosovo rich and well-governed. and we can't compromise on this path.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the composition of the ep committee investigating vehicle pollution falsification. this temporary committee will examine whether the european commission and the states have violated eu law by manipulating emissions measurement equipment by car manufacturers. it was set up following revelations by the us that the volkswagen group had manipulated pollution measurement equipment. the final report will be submitted during the year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive sector. the committee of inquiry is mandated to investigate suspected emissions exceeding the limit values for the vehicles used and to collect and analyse all information on the sanctions taken by member states to prevent the alleged infringements. i believe that the study will help to prevent dishonest actions by automobile companies in the future.
in writing. ‒ the association and free trade agreements with moldova, georgia and ukraine offer a real opportunity for greater political and economic integration of these countries with the european union and for the long-term stability, economic growth and well-being of their populations in the partner countries. it is therefore essential that the proper implementation of these agreements is one of the main priorities of the european union and the partner countries. today, we can already welcome the commission's conclusions that georgia and ukraine have already met all the targets set in the visa liberalisation plans, which shows their determination to choose the path of european integration. in the light of this progress, the council and the member states must immediately implement the eu's commitments to grant these countries visa-free travel. moldova, georgia and ukraine are countries of particular importance to the eastern partnership and in the context of regional security, and we therefore look forward to closer cooperation in the future in the field of conflict prevention and common security challenges, which is a key priority of the renewed eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because georgia, moldova and ukraine eastern partnership countries have chosen the path of close political association and economic integration with the european union through a state-of-the-art association agreement, which provides for the creation of comprehensive and inclusive free trade areas. in line with the association agreements, all three partners have committed themselves to promoting and implementing reforms based on the shared values of democracy, good governance, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. the european parliament stresses the importance of developing the social dimension of the partnership in accordance with the provisions of the association agendas and the relevant conventions of the international labour organisation. parliament also called on all parties to respect their commitments on core labour standards, to exchange best practice and to continue to work towards promoting decent work and the transformation of the informal sector into formal employment, to improve labour safety standards, and to promote social dialogue and the full exercise of trade union rights. finally, parliament stresses the importance of raising public awareness and visibility of the benefits of the association agreement, including through regular contact with civil society organisations, and of facilitating and promoting objective, independent and impartial information on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the resolution on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (aa/dfcta) with georgia, moldova and ukraine. these are crucial times for the eastern partnership (eap) countries facing huge internal and external challenges and pressures. they chose the path of european reforms and parliament with this resolution reaffirms its continuous and unwavering support. corruption remains the main challenge to reforms, development and societal change; efforts in this regard must be significantly stepped up. the minsk agreements must be implemented without any further delay, crimea occupied by russia must be returned, the russian military must leave ukrainian territory at once – this is the prerequisite for easing the sanctions. however, the most recent russian full-scale trade retaliatory measures against ukraine only prove that moscow still has not changed its habits of pressurising and destabilising its neighbours.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on association agreements and comprehensive and inclusive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the resolution reiterates, inter alia, the eu's strong support for the territorial integrity of all these countries, respects their choice to pursue the democratic path and reiterates its commitment to provide them with a range of financial and technical support for political, economic and institutional reforms. the resolution also sets out the main lines of reform that georgia, moldova and ukraine should pursue in order to strengthen their democratic political systems and ensure the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the european union is going through a very difficult period. the uncontrolled flow of immigrants, the radicalisation of eu citizens, terrorist attacks and the constant threat of terrorist attacks require a new and decisive approach to european security. for the first time in the history of the eu, article 42 of the eu treaty was invoked to request military assistance, but as we can see, there is no clear procedure in the european union for implementing the provisions of this article. the european union must act as a matter of urgency in the field of the common security and defence policy. we need a very clear military structure at eu level, with clear strategic tasks and the right capabilities to ensure collective defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because solidarity, support and mutual assistance between member states, ensured and delivered through instruments at eu level, are fundamental values of the european union. the security of the member states is indivisible and all citizens of the european union should enjoy the same security guarantees and the same level of protection against traditional and non-traditional threats, including terrorism and attacks by both state and non-state actors. the european union institutions should be more active in the field of security and defence policy and promote the implementation of all the provisions of the security and defence policy enshrined in the treaties, including the provisions on the special role of nato in european and transatlantic security and defence matters. the strategic partnership between the eu and nato should be strengthened. the european parliament recalls its previous resolutions calling on the vice-presidents of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to propose practical arrangements and guidelines to ensure an effective response when a member state makes use of the mutual defence clause and to provide an analysis of the role of the eu institutions in the event that the clause is applied. parliament also called for better coordination between border management, the police and other law enforcement and intelligence agencies, and for more efficient and structured exchanges of information between them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the terrorist attacks in paris, the application of the mutual assistance clause is a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union. the communication sets out the main policies and measures that will enable member states to prepare for the increasing threats and challenges to their internal and external security.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to set out the eu's priorities for the 2016 session of the un human rights council. i agree that unsc members should be elected from states that respect human rights, the rule of law and democracy. i support calls for the eu to promote the universality of human rights, including civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. the eu must integrate the rights-based approach and the requirement to respect human rights into trade, investment, public services and development cooperation, as well as into its common security and defence policy. it is important that the eu remains actively involved in all un human rights mechanisms and that the eu's actions are given greater visibility in all multilateral fora. i support calls for all governments to promote and support freedom of the media, civil society organisations and human rights defenders and to allow them to operate without fear, repression or intimidation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament addresses the priorities of the european union at the 2016 session of the un human rights council. the promotion of respect for human rights, irrespective of race, origin, sex or colour, is the duty of all states. parliament regretted that, more than 20 years after the vienna declaration on the universality, indivisibility, interdependence and interaction of all human rights, the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights was not given the same importance and attention as the international covenant on civil and political rights. it is also of great concern that the increase in extreme poverty is threatening the full enjoyment of all human rights, and it is therefore essential to give economic, social and cultural rights the same importance and priority as civil and political rights, to recognise the right to social protection, to implement fiscal policy measures specifically aimed at reducing inequalities, to give new impetus and importance to the right to equality and to raise the issue of redistribution of resources as central to the human rights debate. the european parliament strongly supports the effective and comprehensive implementation of the un basic principles on business and human rights in the eu and beyond, and strongly recommends that eu member states develop and implement national action plans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report 2014, which aims to give an overview of the work of the committee on petitions. statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the ep for help with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights. some petitioners turn to the european parliament to make proposals for the development of eu policies, others to challenge decisions taken by national authorities, and others to challenge decisions of national courts. some citizens complain about the incorrect application of eu legislation. in 2014, the ep received 2714 petitions. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: the european commission declared 2014 the european year of citizens and paid particular attention to the european parliament elections, which took place on 22-25 may. the european parliament and the committee on petitions shall promote dialogue between all levels of government, civil society and representative and participatory democracy. the committee on petitions is an important tool for citizens to participate more actively in the european democratic process, stimulating debate, informing eu citizens and helping them to exercise their rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. citizens or residents of the european union natural or legal persons have the right to petition the european parliament, individually or in association with other citizens or persons, on any matter falling within the eu's fields of activity and having a direct impact on them. petitions are thus a means for citizens to express their concerns to parliament about the impact on their daily lives of various eu policies and provisions of eu law. annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help in dealing with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights. some petitioners turn to parliament to make proposals for the development of european union policies, others to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against decisions of national courts. some citizens complain about the incorrect application of eu legislation, because the legislation is not transposed correctly into national law, eu standards are not implemented correctly or these standards are violated. the european parliament stresses that close cooperation with the member states is essential for the work of the committee on petitions and therefore calls on the member states to provide responses on their own initiative to petitions relating to the implementation and enforcement of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because petitions by european citizens are an important tool for their participation in the eu decision-making process. the communication sets out the lines of action of the committee on petitions and the areas for improvement to enable people to make full use of the right to petition. annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help in dealing with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights. some petitioners turn to the european parliament to make proposals for the development of european union policies, others to appeal against decisions taken by national authorities, and others to challenge decisions of national courts. i am confident that the proposals in the ep report on the activities of the committee on petitions will help to ensure that petitions are dealt with more efficiently and more quickly.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i strongly supported the report on the activities of the committee on petitions. it should be clearly stated that the committee on petitions aims to enable citizens of the european union to defend and promote their rights and to monitor the proper application of community rules. the petitions provide a way to understand what citizens are most concerned about and to find solutions to the problems raised within a certain timeframe. better cooperation between the european union institutions and national and regional authorities is essential for rapid problem solving. this is precisely what the european parliament is seeking in this report. the decisions taken today will benefit more people who make requests or complaints and who seek help from the committee on petitions. europeans deserve much better protection for their rights. that's in the report, too.
in writing.– i firmly believe that at this time china should not be granted market economy status with regard to the anti-dumping measures. while the chinese government has been loosening its control on the government, which i commend, china has not met the criteria set out for market economy status. as long as it does not do so, we should not create the fiction that it does. moreover, granting the status could result in the loss of more than 200 000 jobs, which will affect the steel industry in particular. however, a plan must be drawn up in the near future, since the expiration of the current measures is approaching. in the meantime, china must carry on with reforms, with possible help of the eu.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, georgi pirinski, for his really professional work and the excellent negotiations, but what is worrying is not only the scale of undeclared work but also the public tolerance for this phenomenon. i therefore call on the member states to focus on prevention and on training workers as much as possible, so that illegal activities are simply not justified. we must educate the public about the negative consequences of undeclared work, because, on the one hand, workers who work in this way are without any social guarantees, receive lower wages, and subsequently lower pensions, on the other hand, the state collects less taxes, which has a negative impact on social security systems, the internal economy of countries, and, finally, distorts competition. i would also like to point out that undeclared work is widespread and in sectors where women are predominant, such as the care of the elderly, children, the sick, disabled people, domestic work (cleaning, nursing), it is difficult to control these sectors and to get these people out of the shadows, as the people working there often have no social guarantees. i therefore strongly hope that the european platform on undeclared work will be effective and help to strengthen cooperation between member states. commissioner thyssen, you said in your speech that you would do everything possible to get this platform up and running before the summer. i wish you the best of luck with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. europe has been paralysed with regard to the migrant crisis. while we keep discussing possible solutions to the grave problem we face, it hardly ever comes to common action. however, even when we do decide on joint measures, we do not follow through on them. the dublin agreement and the relocation system have failed utterly, as the member states have not committed to apply them. we must either effectively enforce the current measures, or introduce new ones. either way, it is not a problem that can be solved by any member state alone. it is a dilemma that must be dealt with by the european union as a whole. it cannot be fixed by closing national borders, but only by guarding our common ones; those defined by schengen. what we need to do is form a common border guard and coast guard and put a collective reception and relocation system in place. furthermore, we must prompt turkey to crack down on the criminals smuggling refugees to europe under harsh circumstances and we must speak with african governments about returning economic migrants. however, what is most important is that member states keep to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the commission's technical proposal to codify the schengen borders code as soon as possible. the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the technical commission proposal to codify legislation of the schengen borders code as soon as possible. since europe has been struggling in regard to the migrant crisis, it is not a problem that can be solved by any member state alone. that must be dealt with by the european union as a whole. it cannot be fixed by closing national borders, but only by guarding our common ones – those defined by schengen.
in writing. - i voted for that opinion. although the document is more technical in nature, since the amendments do not alter the essence of the original text, an important provision is nevertheless repeated here. it argues that the member states cannot adequately regulate the movement of persons across borders and that this objective should therefore be better achieved at union level. i agree that the rules should be the same for everyone, but it is also important that member states have sufficient flexibility to implement them; additional rules should be adopted if necessary.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. this convention aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before they sink, and this problem must be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. it has helped to create a system for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals, which supplemented the convention, aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. it requires the parties to reduce their combined annual emissions of these three metals to levels below their 1990 levels. the aim is also to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration. i support the amendments contained in the proposal, which aim to ensure a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollutant transfers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports parliament's amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. several studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 showed that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before they settle. the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. the convention established a framework for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant releases on human health and the environment. the amended protocol provides in particular for stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and for more flexible transitional arrangements. this amendment to the protocol is already implemented in existing eu legislation and will be further transposed by the adoption of a new directive setting updated national emission limits for certain atmospheric pollutants and providing for annual national emission inventories of pollutants (including lead, cadmium and mercury).
in writing. ‒ i support the eu’s ratification of an update to the international agreement on controlling transboundary air pollution, specifically concerning heavy metal emissions, because these amendments will contribute to a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the amendments to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. i believe that these changes will help to control and reduce the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment. the amended protocol to the convention, in particular the stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and the more flexible transitional arrangements, is of benefit to parties wishing to accede to the amended protocol by the end of 2019, including countries of eastern and south-eastern europe. the ratification of this amendment will be an important step towards ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary airborne emissions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. the effects of air pollution are not local, but are constantly being transported by the wind. to date, the convention has been supplemented by eight protocols covering: the financing scheme for monitoring and evaluation activities in europe; emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, transboundary pollution flows, heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants; specific national emission limits; and reduction targets for different substances. the protocols set stricter emission limit values and provide for management measures, encouraging a gradual shift in production away from the use of environmentally harmful substances such as mercury.
in writing. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level. the aim is to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (energy generation, road transport) and waste incineration. it sets emission limit values for specific large stationary sources and requires the parties to apply best available techniques (bat). parties are also required to establish and maintain inventories of pb, cd and hg emissions to ambient air, to phase out ethyl gasoline and to reduce mercury in alkaline batteries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. this convention aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before they sink, and this problem must be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. it has helped to create a system for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants, which supplemented the convention, aims to limit, reduce or eliminate the release, ingress and discharge into the environment of pops. parties shall ensure that operators of large stationary emission sources apply the best available techniques, that certain waste incineration plants comply with the emission limit values, etc. i support the amendments contained in the proposal, which aim to ensure a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollutant transfers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the adoption by parliament of the 1998 protocol on the modification of the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants. i voted in favour of this report because it supports parliament's amendments to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and the 1998 protocol on heavy metals. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution. several studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 showed that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before they settle. the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level. the convention, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. the convention established a framework for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant releases on human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu’s ratification of the 1998 update to the international agreement on controlling transboundary air pollution, specifically concerning persistent organic pollutants. thanks to the updated implementation requirements for several substances and restrictions for dioxin and furan emissions from several sources, as well as the addition of pcbs to the substances affected by emission restrictions, these amendments will contribute to a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the amendments to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. i believe that these changes will help to control and reduce the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment. the amended protocol to the convention, in particular the stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and the more flexible transitional arrangements, is of benefit to parties wishing to accede to the amended protocol by the end of 2019, including countries of eastern and south-eastern europe. the ratification of this amendment will be an important step towards ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary airborne emissions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution of 1979 and the protocol of 1998. the 1998 aarhus protocol was designed to limit, reduce or eliminate emissions of persistent organic pollutants. parties to the protocol are obliged to cease the production and use of substances harmful to the environment, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, hexachlorcyclohexanes and polychlorinated biphenyls, and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins and hexachlorobenzene. in december 2009, the text of the protocol was amended to include seven new substances. most of these amendments to the protocol have already been implemented by existing eu legislation and will be further transposed by the adoption of a new directive which will set emission limits for these substances. in this context, this document is an important step towards reducing pollution.
in writing. the problem of air pollution needs to be addressed at international level. parties to the protocol are obliged to cease production and use of the substances concerned, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, hexachlorcyclohexanes and polychlorinated biphenyls and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins/furans and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs). parties are also required to establish and maintain inventories of the quantities of certain pops emitted and to collect information on the production and sales of other pops covered by the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, which aims to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, for example by ukraine seconding a liaison officer to eurojust and exchanging information, including personal data. i agree that there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine in order to strengthen the fight against cross-border crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe. i support the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with ukraine, which would help to combat serious crime and would also contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the report of parliament's approval of the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the aim of this agreement is to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, for example by ukraine seconding a liaison officer to eurojust and exchanging information, including personal data. ukraine has acceded to the council of europe convention of 1981 for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data and the protocol to that convention on the transfrontier flows of data by supervisory authorities and states. in this respect, the jsa indicated that the issue of the independence of the competent supervisory authority in ukraine was properly addressed by entrusting these tasks to the ombudsman, who is guaranteed full operational independence by the constitution of ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i support the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and the ukraine, because it is imperative that eurojust and the ukraine work together in the fight against serious transnational crime, particularly organised crime and terrorism. this agreement would also enhance judicial co-operation, which is similarly necessary in this battle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this agreement will help the authorities in charge to fight serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the agreement will also facilitate judicial cooperation between the eu member states and ukraine.
in writing. i agree with the report. organised crime and terrorism are not stopped by the eu's external borders and are increasingly becoming transnational. in this context, it is essential to develop cooperation opportunities and implement appropriate measures at regional level. there is a need to strengthen the effectiveness of the action of the competent authorities of the member states in combating serious transnational and organised crime. more active cooperation with other relevant third countries, in particular those bordering the eu, and other regional actors and international organisations is therefore necessary. it is necessary to enable a more effective fight against organised crime and to ensure adequate protection of individuals against transnational crime and terrorism and to prevent possible damage to the social and economic life of european society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine because i believe that it will help ukraine to become stronger and better able to fight organised crime and terrorism. this is another step towards ukraine's accession to the european union. this cooperation will help ukraine to improve its legal system and exchange good practices. at the same time, it will allow the fundamental differences between the european union and ukrainian systems to be seen and to be brought closer together.
in writing. this proposal relates to the proposal to approve a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aimed at improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, for example by ukraine seconding a liaison officer to eurojust and exchanging information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement, which aims to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust by montenegro and the exchange of information, including personal data. i agree that there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with montenegro in order to strengthen the fight against cross-border crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe. i support the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with montenegro, which would help to combat serious crime and would also contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the report of parliament's approval of the conclusion of the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement. the aim of this agreement is to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, for example by seconding a liaison prosecutor to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. montenegro has acceded to the council of europe convention for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data of 1981 and to the protocol thereto on the transfrontier flows of data between supervisory authorities and states. the joint supervisory body indicated that the provisions on the exchange of personal data included in the draft agreement are appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i support the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro because it is necessary that eurojust work with montenegro in aiding and reinforcing the fight against serious crime, as well as enhancing judicial co-operation, particularly in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the eurojust-montenegro judicial cooperation agreement. the agreement will help the authorities responsible to combat serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, and will facilitate cooperation between the courts of the eu member states and montenegro.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro is an essential instrument for strengthening the fight against organised crime. only close and effective international cooperation and coordination can help to combat cross-border crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe. it is worth noting that the provisions of the agreement on operational cooperation between the two countries will facilitate international cooperation in cases relating to serious and organised crime, in particular terrorism, trafficking in human beings, large-scale fraud. in view of the damage caused by organised crime to public security and economic stability of the country, more efforts are needed to promote and improve the coordination of pre-trial investigation and prosecution, as well as to provide legal assistance to member states to make their investigations and prosecutions more effective.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because montenegro has made great progress in recent years in strengthening the legal system, increasing the professionalism and independence of the judiciary. nevertheless, montenegro remains a high risk of judicial corruption, deplorable prison conditions and other human rights violations are reported. cooperation with montenegro is therefore essential to ensure reforms.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report on the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement. the objective of cooperation was clearly defined and aims to improve cooperation between judicial authorities in the eu member states in the field of crime, investigation and prosecution, taking into account transnational and organised crime. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, including the secondment of the liaison prosecutor for montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data, in particular in the context of the fight against terrorism in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of the polish member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament a request from the central road transport inspectorate for the prosecution of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, for the infringement of the 29 km/h speed limit in the town of sklarów, poland. the facts alleged against mr iwaszkiewicz constitute an infringement under the polish code of administrative offences. the european parliament applies its established principles to decide whether or not to waive the immunity of a member of parliament, one of which is that immunity is normally waived unless there is evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. there is a sufficiently serious and clear suspicion that the member concerned is being prosecuted for political reasons. it is apparent from the circumstances of the case that the alleged administrative irregularity and the subsequent administrative prosecution have nothing to do with the duties of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and therefore there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision to waive the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, due to the fact that in similar cases involving article 9 of protocol no. 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, parliamentary immunity is usually waived. this is especially the case when there is no evidence of political motivation behind the prosecution, which there does not seem to be here. as a result, i am in favour of the conclusion made by the committee of legal affairs to waive parliamentary immunity for mr iwaszkiewicz, and have the criminal proceedings begin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of the polish member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the parliament a request from the central road transport inspectorate for the authorisation to prosecute mr iwaszkiewicz for the infringement of the speed limit of 34 km/h in the city of rawicz, poland. the facts alleged against mr iwaszkiewicz constitute an infringement under the polish code of administrative offences. the european parliament applies its established principles to decide whether or not to waive the immunity of a member of parliament, one of which is that immunity is normally waived unless there is evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. there is a sufficiently serious and clear suspicion that the member concerned is being prosecuted for political reasons. it is apparent from the circumstances of the case that the alleged administrative irregularity and the subsequent administrative prosecution have nothing to do with the duties of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and therefore there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision to waive the immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, due to the fact that in similar cases involving article 9 of protocol no. 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, parliamentary immunity is usually waived. this is especially the case when there is no evidence of political motivation behind the prosecution, which there does not seem to be here. as a result, i am in favour of the conclusion made by the committee of legal affairs to waive parliamentary immunity for mr iwaszkiewicz, and have the criminal proceedings begin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the decision of the parliament not to waive the immunity of florian philippot, member of the european parliament from france. florian philippot is accused of defaming a non-eu state, namely qatar, in his radio broadcasts of 9 january 2015 and his television broadcasts of 19 january 2015, in which he alleged that the state financed terrorism. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the constitution of the french republic provide that members of parliament may not be subject to civil or criminal liability for opinions expressed in the performance of their duties. the provisions of the french system which protect the representatives of the people in the exercise of their functions date from 1789 and are based on respect for the expression of the will of the people and the need for elected representatives in a democratic state to be able to exercise their powers freely and without fear of being sued or of being prevented from doing so by the executive or the judiciary. this absolute immunity of a member of the european parliament covers not only the opinion expressed by a member in official sessions of parliament but also the opinion expressed elsewhere, for example in the media, where there is a link between the opinion expressed and the duties of a member of parliament, and the expression of opinions on the foreign policy of the eu and non-member states in the public sphere is one of the duties of a member of the european parliament. the parliament therefore decided that the conditions for waiving florian philippot's immunity were not satisfied for that reason.
in writing. ‒ i support the committee's decision to uphold mr. philippot's parliamentary immunity. this is because his alleged offence is an opinion he stated regarding a non-member state, and according to both the european parliament and french law, opinions and expressions cannot be challenged or face the threat of legal action.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to tackle the problem of undeclared work. this proposal would allow eu ministries, trade unions and employers' associations to cooperate more closely in the fight against undeclared work. undeclared work is any paid activity which is legal in nature but is not declared to the relevant public authorities. it accounts for as much as 18% of the eu's gross domestic product. such activities have very negative consequences: exploitation of millions of workers across the union, low-quality work, unfair competition and losses to member states' budgets and social security systems. i agree that in order to successfully tackle the multifaceted problem of undeclared work, it is necessary first of all to consider objectively its true nature. i support the commitment to create an eu-wide cooperation platform that will allow representatives of all the union's member states, the european commission and the social partners trade unions and employers to meet twice a year. they will be able to share information and suggest ways to tackle undeclared work. working groups will also be set up to address specific problems related to such work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the report which parliament has endorsed on the european platform for combating unemployment. this platform will strengthen cooperation between member states' labour ministries, trade unions and employers' organisations in identifying best practices in tackling undeclared work in the eu. it is estimated that the number of people in the eu who are unemployed is growing at a rate of about one in every five. the latest eurofound surveys show that, first, the size and growth of the undeclared economy and, second, austerity policies, with drastic budget cuts, increasingly reduced regulation and the role of the state, are closely linked. the same studies show that the alternative approach, whereby public expenditure on labour market and social assistance measures is encouraged, is closely linked to the much smaller undeclared economy. the platform will be the place to collect and share reliable information on best practices and lingering problems, and to cooperate in defining and implementing effective enforcement and enabling measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the trilogue agreement because eu action on the issue of tackling undeclared work can help create jobs by legalising them, securing workers’ access to social security and pensions and saving member states’ tax revenues, among other things. in addition, the trilogue agreement will get the platform operational as soon as possible, will not conflict with national legislation, and will harmonize cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the report by which parliament endorsed the creation of a european platform to combat undeclared work. the platform will strengthen cooperation between the responsible authorities in the member states, trade unions and employers' organisations in the fight against undeclared work in the eu. the eu has also been active in the fight against illegal immigration, particularly in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings. more worryingly, workers often support this phenomenon, as undeclared work is their only chance of getting a higher - but not necessarily adequate - salary. a harmonised approach at eu level to understanding and tackling the causes of informal work could help to ensure stronger rights and protection for workers, to stimulate social security funding and to strengthen labour standards.
in writing. i agree with the report. it should be noted that undeclared work is a phenomenon that is often transnational and is constantly spreading, with significant negative effects on the budget, employment and distortions of social protection systems. a common approach to tackling undeclared work is therefore needed in order to combat and deter undeclared work more effectively and efficiently. targeted active policy measures need to be implemented across the eu to prevent the spread of this phenomenon and to increase the effectiveness of the control of illegal work. in particular, joint coordinated action at eu level needs to improve cooperation and exchange of best practices between member states. measures need to be put in place to help the relevant authorities in the member states to address the problems related to the cross-border aspects of undeclared work. particular attention should be paid to the legalisation of the jobs concerned through responsible economic and social policies that reduce the incentives for employers and workers to engage in illegal work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european platform for cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work will be a tool to help fight undeclared work. it is important to stress that the success of this platform can only depend on the eu member states. their willingness to share good practice and their determination to take concrete action together will determine whether this tool will be useful for europe or become another broken system.
in writing. ‒ the the report listed the promotion of employment and the improvement of living and working conditions as among the objectives of the european union in the field of social policy. that's a very important statement. therefore, in order to address the problem fully and effectively, in particular as regards undeclared work, member states should introduce a specific set of actions based on cooperation between all relevant authorities. this cooperation should involve all national authorities and representatives of the social partners. closer cooperation at eu level is needed to prevent undeclared work, which harms the eu economy, leads to unfair competition and market distortions, threatens the financial stability of the eu social model and creates growing gaps in the social and employment protection of workers. in this context, the tasks of the european platform should include enhancing the exchange of experience and good practice, providing timely, objective, reliable and comparable information, which will undoubtedly contribute to the deepening of cross-border cooperation in order to better protect workers. i voted in favour of the report for these important reasons.
in writing. ‒ the biodiversity, the unique variety of earth's different ecosystems, habitats, species and families, from which humans are also inseparable, provides an extraordinary net value. biodiversity is under pressure both in europe and worldwide, with species disappearing at an alarming rate. habitat change, pollution, overpopulation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the loss of biodiversity. in 2011, the eu set out a new strategy with six objectives: full implementation of the birds and habitats directives; maintenance and restoration of ecosystems and their functions; increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the maintenance and enhancement of biodiversity; ensuring the sustainable use of fisheries resources; combating invasive alien species; and making a greater contribution to the eu's efforts to reverse the global trend of biodiversity loss. but the results are not encouraging. the environmental impact of the eu-28 is twice that of the biological potential. only 23% of species and 16% of habitats are in good condition. progress is too slow to reach the ultimate goal. i agree that more political will is needed to make the problem of biodiversity loss a real political priority. better implementation and monitoring of current legislation is also a prerequisite for progress, as is investment in nature and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. biodiversity, the unique variety of earth's different ecosystems, habitats, species and families, from which humans are also inseparable, provides an extraordinary net value. human life is highly dependent on biodiversity for many valuable ecosystem functions: clean air, clean water, raw materials, pollinators and flood protection are just a few. biodiversity is under pressure both globally and in europe. species are disappearing at an unprecedented rate. it's all about human activity. habitat change, pollution, overpopulation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the loss of biodiversity. in 2011, the eu developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem functions, restoring as much as possible by 2020 and reversing the global trend of biodiversity loss. today we can say that without extra efforts, the eu will not be able to implement the agreement until 2020. the numbers are very clear. the environmental impact of the eu-28 is twice that of the biological potential. only 23% of species and 16% of habitats are in good condition. therefore, greater political will and better implementation and monitoring of existing legislation are necessary conditions for progress.
in writing. ‒ the eu birds and habitats directives have contributed significantly to protecting nature in europe. the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy nevertheless shows that biodiversity loss continues: more than three quarters of the important natural habitats in the eu are now in an unfavourable state, and a quarter of all species are threatened with extinction. efforts must be stepped up, and eu legislation must be implemented in a more effective, equal and smart way across the eu. as a result, i support this committee on the environment’s report, and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal for a mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the year 2010 was not a success in europe's quest to halt the loss of biodiversity. in 2011, the eu therefore developed a new strategy. in this strategy, eu heads of state and government have defined a key objective to halt the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem functions and to restore them as much as possible by 2020. the ep's report sets out the main challenges to achieve these objectives. it is emphasised that the implementation, enforcement and financing of the nature directives are essential conditions for the success of the whole strategy. the communication therefore calls on the european commission and the member states to respect eu law in good faith, to improve enforcement and, where necessary, to apply proportionate, effective and dissuasive sanctions. only in this way will the successful implementation of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives be ensured.
in writing. i agree with the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. progress towards the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 is welcome in many areas, but it is not enough and more needs to be done. particular attention should be paid to biodiversity policy, as biodiversity loss increases the risk of irreversible changes and undermines economic development and societal resilience. in particular, better implementation and monitoring of existing legislation is needed. furthermore, additional innovative solutions and implementing measures need to be sought. i believe that the commission should come forward with a concrete proposal for a trans-european green infrastructure network as soon as possible. it is essential that the ban on the use of neonicotinoids be maintained in view of their potential adverse effects. it is also necessary to apply the precautionary principle fully in the authorisation of uses and releases of live modified organisms into the environment. particular attention should be paid to new hydraulic crushing operations in the european union. in view of the negative impact of these activities on the climate, the environment and biodiversity, i am of the opinion that member states should not issue permits for such activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is one of the best documents that reflects the realities of today. in europe, almost a quarter of wildlife species are threatened with extinction and many ecosystems are in a deplorable state. in this context, the resolution calls for greater attention to be paid to soil conservation, encourages member states not to authorise any new hydraulic drying operations in the european union and stresses that cap financial resources should not be allocated to subsidize environmentally harmful activities, but should be directed towards financing sustainable agricultural practices.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the report by mr demesmaeker, as it highlights the importance of environmental issues. he said that the main factors and causes of biodiversity loss in the eu and beyond are land-use change linked to the dispersal, degradation and destruction of animal habitats, as well as marine habits that are incompatible with the principle of the development and use of the seas. in this context, indicators that provide a meaningful and scientific assessment of the status of biodiversity in a given zone or area and that maintain a wise and sustainable use of resources both at eu and global level need to be identified and defined. a more sustainable economy and a reduction in overconsumption could reduce the eu's future dependence on natural resources, especially those from outside europe. this is an important question, as we must remember that almost a quarter of europe's wildlife is threatened with extinction and many ecosystems have been affected by degradation, with serious social and economic losses for the eu.
in writing. i would stress that the loss of biodiversity has a very high economic cost for society, which has not yet been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies. i stress that political will at the highest level is essential to preserve biodiversity and halt its loss. i believe that it is of the utmost importance to implement and enforce existing legislation and to further integrate the issue of biodiversity protection into other policy areas. in particular, i encourage regional and local authorities in the member states to provide information and raise awareness about biodiversity.
the free movement system, otherwise known as the schengen area, is a major achievement of the european union. i'm sure it's necessary to keep it. i find it difficult to understand the statements of some politicians who point out that we do not have the funds to deal with the refugee crisis, but at the same time these politicians are increasingly openly considering the abolition or suspension of schengen for a few years. it won't cost you anything. i want to make it clear that the refugee crisis cannot be solved without financial injections, and the abolition of the schengen area would mean that we all have to pay even more. it is important to remember that it was possible to provide, when it was being drawn up, for each member state to temporarily reintroduce border controls if necessary. i do not know whether the schengen authors had in mind a crisis such as the present one, but i understand why some countries are starting to introduce stricter controls, but i think the key word here is 'temporary'.
in writing. europe is struggling to find a solution to the biggest migration crisis since the second world war. it must be acknowledged that the situation is getting out of hand, as major political decisions are being delayed. if the migration crisis continues unchecked, the schengen system will have to be suspended in a couple of months, as donald tusk has warned. this would not be a good solution; but first and foremost, the european union needs to have mechanisms in place to ensure effective protection of the eu's external borders, thorough checks on people arriving, separating genuine refugees from conflict zones from people trying to enter the eu for entirely different reasons. member states must agree, without waiting for the march eu summit, to establish a clear migration management framework, otherwise this mass and uncontrolled immigration could have negative political and economic consequences across the eu.
in writing. in recent years, the eu has been facing the biggest migration crisis of the decade. it is noted that an increasing number of arrivals are not war refugees but rather those from countries considered safe, in other words economic migrants. some of those entering the eu also come from refugee camps in turkey, citing the very poor living conditions in those camps. we still haven't found, or maybe we don't have enough political will to find, a solution to stop the flow of migrants. but time is running out, as the free movement of persons within the eu is already a major value and achievement of european integration. what do you do? individual eu member states must be able to exercise their right to reduce their attractiveness to economic migrants europe must get rid of the image of a soft economic welfare state among migrants willing to cross the eu border illegally. at the same time, the community must take real action in a joint effort to strengthen the external borders. most importantly, however, various estimates suggest that providing the necessary assistance to refugees in countries bordering the eu is more than five times cheaper than inside the eu. this should encourage member states to allocate funds to support such refugee centres in the eu's neighbourhood, in particular in turkey. in return for the allocation, the eu must require turkey to pay more attention to ensuring border protection with the eu, as well as to the transparent use of these funds and to closer coordination of migration policies between the eu and turkey.
commissioner, it is a pleasure to see you here, but i must also say that i am really disappointed that the commission has only presented a working document and not a strategy. and we said that to commissioner jourová back in december when she presented this working document to our femm committee. of course, these strategic objectives are welcome and good, but the measures, the concrete actions set out in this working document, will hardly make it possible to achieve these objectives, because they are clearly insufficient. i would like the commission to consider the following possibility: does the commission not think that a european observatory on violence against women should be set up as soon as possible within the european institute for gender equality, because this is a very important matter? it should be headed by a european coordinator for the prevention of violence against women and girls. i would also like to ask the commissioner how the commission has decided to launch the written declaration on the european year against violence against women, which was initiated by our members of parliament, since more than 400 members of parliament signed and endorsed such a written declaration last year, but there is no such year yet, which is very much needed. and, furthermore, does the commission not intend to revise in concrete terms the 2006 directive on equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market, which is already inadequately implemented and not fully implemented, particularly as regards pay for men and women? finally, i would really like to see normal cooperation between the commission and the european parliament, and i think that in this case the commission must admit that it has failed because of its gender equality policy, it has acted unwisely, but this can be corrected. i hope so.
in writing. the health of european citizens is still not guaranteed. the european commission's delay in adopting scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting properties is a prime example. this was to be done by december 2013. members of parliament are informed that these criteria have already been drawn up, but under the cover of various procedures they do not want to publish them. in the meantime, human hormonal disorders and diseases, including premature puberty, genital deformities, certain cancers, and metabolic disorders, are on the increase. and it continues to cause anomalies in wildlife species, disrupting their reproductive, behavioral, immune function. today, we need more than criteria, we need more research. there are an estimated 800 chemicals known or suspected to have an effect on hormone synthesis, but only a small fraction of these have been studied, and therefore very important research should be carried out in the future and supported by the european union.
today we will probably be talking again about the critical situation, the complexity of the european union, and tomorrow the mediterranean will be washing up with a new batch of european lobsters. i remember many previous meetings where we had similar discussions on the need to strengthen the union's external borders and to arrest and prosecute people smugglers. honey, why did it all end in talk? why, even today, months after the problem began, the union's southern external borders are more holes than holes. where are the captured and severely convicted smugglers whose seized ships are docked in european ports? the schengen clauses and the temporary reintroduction of border controls will not solve the problem today. if the controls at the external borders of the union were properly applied, no one would have to build fences or take other measures. let us show the unity of the european union's member states by protecting its external borders. all of them, with one or a few of them. and that would be a good step towards a europe of peoples and states, and let us not be afraid of it. we should not be afraid of the british proposals to strengthen the states of europe rather than the federation. these are the only two chances for the european union to survive, and european politicians will not be forgiven if we fail to take advantage of them. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. there are many possible explanations for this, and i think one of them is that this could be a vision of the future of europe and the creation of a federalist globalist europe, motivated by the fact that there are 28 national parliaments and national parliaments that this is a complex system and cannot ensure effective governance. i think the truth is not like that. i believe that every country should be equal and we are joining the european union of equal countries. and i think that's the kind of union that we should be living in.
madam president, georgia is probably the most advanced in implementing reforms related to the association agreement and visa liberalisation. the georgian population remains strongly supportive of the european course, with 68% willing to join the eu and support the democratic development of the country. the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) is already bringing positive effects to georgia and, with continuous reforms and standardisation, its exports to the eu will grow. but due to asymmetry in trade, the effects on the eu market will remain minimal. georgia will gain in terms of job creation, encouraging growth and investment and creating a predictable and liberal business environment. such a mechanism has never been used so far, but it provides a safety net – if needed – for eu producers of sensitive agricultural products and for georgian producers against the fraudulent circumvention of origin requirements by third parties not covered by this association agreement. i thank the shadow-rapporteurs, all the interlocutors and advisers for their work and constructive approach, and i ask your support for this report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the eu-moldova association agreement. it provides for a bilateral safeguard clause allowing the suspension of preferences in the event of a sudden increase in imports which would cause economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing country. the agreement also provides for a so-called anti-circumvention procedure, which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the mfn duty rate for imports of certain agricultural products from moldova in excess of the threshold and in the absence of a proper justification of their precise origin. the proposed regulation aims to ensure the fulfilment of moldova's obligations under the agreement in order to protect eu producers where necessary. i support the proposal to introduce a reporting obligation requiring the commission to submit an annual report to the legislative authorities on the application and implementation of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it adopted parliament's position on the regulation implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention procedure providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences for moldova under the association agreement. the association agreement with moldova, like most of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. this measure allows the suspension of preferences in the event of an unexpectedly high increase in imports, which would cause economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing country. the agreement also provides for a so-called anti-circumvention procedure, which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the mfn duty rate for imports of certain agricultural products from moldova in excess of the threshold and in the absence of adequate justification of their exact origin. in order to incorporate into eu internal law the measure allowing for the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention procedure, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the obligations of moldova arising from the agreement, in order to protect eu producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down the measures and conditions for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs tariff in implementation of the eu-moldova association agreement. the introduction of provisions in eu law on the temporary suspension of preferential customs duties is important to protect the eu market and producers when imports increase to the point of being harmful to the european economy. the conditions for combating circumvention are also important in order to avoid the use of the preferences of this agreement to circumvent the requirements of the rules of origin when importing products originating in non-moldova countries into the eu via moldova.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, like most eu trade agreements, it contains a bilateral safeguard clause. this measure allows the suspension of preferences in the event of an unexpectedly high increase in imports, which would cause economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing country. despite being a more technical change and the eu being moldova's largest trading partner, accounting for 46,4% of moldova's trade, the use of the mutual protection clause is rather problematic, as it is difficult to prove and apply both substantive and procedural requirements.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report for a number of important reasons. trade with the eu accounts for 46.4% of moldova's trade, making the eu its largest trading partner. as in the case of most trade agreements of the union, this agreement includes a mutual safeguard clause. a safeguard measure may be imposed in the event that, following the reduction or elimination of the customs duty, a product originating in the republic of moldova is moved in such quantities that it causes serious injury or threatens the union industry. the contract also contains a countervailing duty mechanism which allows the re-imposition of a duty rate in the event of transhipment of certain agricultural products exceeding the limit set in the contract. the adopted notification contributes to the protection of union producers, in particular farmers. records like this need to be backed up.
i welcome the reporting obligation in the commission's proposal, which requires the commission to submit to the legislative authorities an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation and to make it public.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the eu-georgia association agreement. it provides for a so-called anti-circumvention procedure, which allows the re-application of the rate of duty of the most favourable treatment to imports of certain agricultural products from georgia in excess of the threshold and in the absence of a proper justification of their precise origin. the proposed regulation provides for the practical application of the relevant provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement. the proposed regulation aims to ensure the implementation of georgia's obligations arising from the provisions of the agreement on anti-circumvention procedures in order to protect eu producers where necessary. i support the proposal to introduce a reporting obligation requiring the commission to submit an annual report to the legislature on the application and implementation of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it adopted parliament's position on the regulation implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention procedure, which provides for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences for georgia under the association agreement. the association agreement with georgia, like most of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. this measure allows the suspension of preferences in the event of an unexpectedly high increase in imports, which would cause economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing country. the agreement also provides for a so-called anti-circumvention procedure, which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the mfn duty rate for imports of certain agricultural products from georgia in excess of the threshold and in the absence of a proper justification of their precise origin. in order to incorporate into eu internal law the measure allowing for the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention procedure, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to ensure compliance with georgia's obligations under the agreement, in order to protect eu producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of an anti-circumvention mechanism, because being able to temporarily suspend preferential tariffs as a result of excess imports will limit negative effects on the union market, and will protect georgian businesses from threat and competition by non-georgian businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation implementing the anti-circumvention procedure provided for in the eu-georgia association agreement, which provides for the temporary suspension of the application of tariff preferences. the inclusion of the anti-circumvention clause in eu law was necessary to prevent the importation into the eu via georgia of products not originating in georgia benefiting from the provisions of the agreement. the same objective is to prevent the states which have signed bilateral free trade agreements with georgia from using this agreement to circumvent the requirements of the rules of origin. this condition is also a measure to protect georgian producers from such possible abuse and competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu is georgia's main trading partner. trade with the eu accounts for 27.2% of its current trade. the amendment relates to the incorporation of european union law into the eu-georgia association agreement, which ensures the effective application of that law in order to prevent possible adverse effects on the union market.
in writing. the proposed regulation is necessary to ensure the implementation of georgia's obligations arising from the provisions of the agreement on anti-circumvention procedures in order to protect eu producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, bringing the total number of visually impaired to 26 350 000. only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are accessible to people with disabilities. the marrakesh treaty concerns improved access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. the seven eu member states formed a minority bloc which is hampering the ratification process of the treaty. i support calls for the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process. it is necessary to ensure the right of persons with disabilities to education on a non-discriminatory basis and on the basis of equal opportunities, while ensuring that legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights does not constitute an unjustified or discriminatory barrier to access to cultural material by persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in response to petitions from citizens, parliament expressed its indignation at the failure of member states to ratify the marrakesh treaty, which commits to improving access to published works for blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled people. the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, bringing the total number of visually impaired to 26 350 000. however, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are in accessible formats. the eu and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014, thereby assuming a political commitment to ratify it. parliament therefore emphasised with deep indignation that the seven eu member states constituted a minority bloc which was obstructing the ratification process of the treaty. parliament called on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process so that ratification does not become conditional on the review of eu legislation or a ruling by the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution to call on the council and member states to accelerate ratification of the marrakesh treaty, because there are over 26 million visually impaired individuals who are being negatively affected and deprived of the opportunity to learn from published books and cultural materials, mainly due to a lack of commitment and communication from eu governments, specifically seven member states. this is slowing the process of ratifying a bill that has already been signed, and should be quickly dealt with thanks to a quick ratification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it draws attention to the fact that the eu and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014, thereby assuming a political commitment to ratify it. however, seven eu member states formed a minority bloc which is hampering the ratification process. this resolution calls for a final solution and for the treaty to be ratified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal asking the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean fg72. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it criticised the commission's implementing decision, did not approve it and asked for a new draft decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybeans. in 2011, bayer cropscience ag made a request to the competent authority of belgium to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from fg72 soybean. the application refers to a protein from genetically modified soybean synthetine which confers resistance to the herbicides glifosinate and isoxaphlutol. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (the specialized cancer agency of the world health organisation) classified glyphosate as a substance with possible carcinogenic effects in humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission’s proposal on authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72 as well as placing products that consist of or were produced from genetically modified soya. the main reasoning behind this comes from the possible threat of cancer for humans because of the chemical composition of genetically modified soya.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission decision authorising the importation into the eu of three genetically modified soybeans fg72. the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans fg72 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles of eu legislation aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the soybean fg72 is genetically modified to be resistant to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance classified by the world health organisation as a substance with possible carcinogenic effects on humans by the international agency for research on cancer. based on scientific findings on the negative effects of gmos and in the light of negative public opinion towards gmos, the european commission must review the authorisation procedure and come forward with a new proposal to allow member states to take decisions on gmos themselves. until a new procedure is agreed, the commission should not issue new licences and i would never support attempts to do so.
in writing. it is essential to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests throughout the eu. it is therefore necessary to prevent the application of leniency clauses and exceptions to favourable decisions on gmos. in the eu's single market, producers must compete on a level playing field, taking account not only of economic but also of social and ecological principles. the placing on the market of genetically modified soybeans shall not be authorised. firstly, there is too little information and too little reliable scientific evidence to say that gmos and the food they produce are completely safe for the environment and for us. moreover, it is not clear what the consequences of gmos will be in the near future, much less what future we are creating for our descendants. in this context, i support the proposal to call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not understand why the european commission does not want to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. the ec has approved a soybean that has been 'enriched' with two new proteins, one of which determines its resistance to glyphosate and the other to the herbicide isoxaplutol. glufosinate was added to the list of the 22 most dangerous chemicals back in 2009 and the european parliament had already voted against renewing the expiry date for these substances. i hope the ec will listen to parliament's position and stop this soya from entering the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it criticised the commission's implementing decision, did not approve it and asked for a new draft decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybeans. in 2012, the company 'monsanto europe s.a.' made a request to the competent authority of the netherlands to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean. genetically modified soybeans contain a protein that provides resistance to dicamba herbicides and glyphosate herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized cancer agency of the world health organisation classified glyphosate as a substance with probable carcinogenic potential for humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission’s proposal on the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 due to the same reasoning as for soybean fg72.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission decision authorising the import into the eu of three genetically modified soybeans 87708 × mon 89788. the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans 87708 × mon 89788 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles laid down in eu legislation aiming at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the soybean 87708 × mon 89788 is genetically modified to be resistant to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance classified by the world health organisation as a substance with possible carcinogenic effects on humans by the international agency for research on cancer. based on scientific findings on the negative effects of gmos and in the light of negative public opinion towards gmos, the european commission must review the authorisation procedure and come forward with a new proposal to allow member states to take decisions on gmos themselves. until a new procedure is agreed, the commission should not issue new licences and i would never support attempts to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the approval of a new gmo. the soybean has been developed to be resistant to glyphosate. the world health organization's international cancer institute recently announced that glyphosate, which gm soybeans have an average concentration of 10 mg/kg, is the most likely human carcinogen. i do not understand why the commission refuses to hear these arguments, and i welcome the fact that the majority in the ep has decided to remind the commission that it must take care of the health of its citizens.
in writing. i do not agree because: unforeseen health risks, possible emergence of new allergens or toxic substances in food. potential environmental hazards: genetic contamination, uncontrolled release of genes into the environment. the risk to biodiversity. development of resistant forms of pests and weeds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it criticised the commission's implementing decision, did not approve it and asked for a new draft decision on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybeans. in 2011, the company 'monsanto europe s.a.' made a request to the competent authority of the netherlands to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean. genetically modified soybeans produce less fatty acid desaturase and palmitoylacil protein-carrier thioesterase enzymes, resulting in more oleic acid and less linoleic acid, and a protein that makes soybeans resistant to glyphosate herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized cancer agency of the world health organisation classified glyphosate as a substance with probable carcinogenic potential for humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission’s proposal on the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 due to the same reasoning as for soybean fg72.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission decision authorising the import into the eu of three genetically modified soybeans 87705 × mon 89788. the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans 87705 × mon 89788 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles laid down in eu legislation aiming at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the soybean 87705 × mon 89788 is genetically modified to be resistant to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance classified by the world health organisation as a substance with possible carcinogenic effects on humans by the international agency for research on cancer. based on scientific findings on the negative effects of gmos and in the light of negative public opinion towards gmos, the european commission must review the authorisation procedure and come forward with a new proposal to allow member states to take decisions on gmos themselves. until a new procedure is agreed, the commission should not issue new licences and i would never support attempts to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision on the approval of a new gmo. the soybean is designed to be resistant to glyphosate, which is recognised by scientists as a carcinogen. since the commission has been instructed by the european food safety authority to deny this fact, a letter of protest to mr andriukaitis was signed by 90 european scientists working in the field of gmos. on 28 january, 65 meps from different political groups supported these scientists in an open letter to commissioner andriukaitis. i hope that the fact that this resolution has been voted by a large majority of members will encourage the european commission to change its approach to gmos.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft regulation by 1 april 2016 to establish real driving emissions measurements for all vehicles. the proposal aims to veto the decision to allow more flexible emission limits for diesel cars. the european commission has proposed to measure vehicle pollution in real road conditions instead of in laboratories from september 2017. given the higher pollution levels under these conditions, the potential errors in the new measurement system and the proposals from the eu member states, the commission decided to allow the emission limits for nitrogen oxides (80 mg/km) to be exceeded by up to 110% by the beginning of 2020 and by 50% thereafter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) and to submit a new draft regulation without delay to require all vehicles to be subject to real driving emissions measurements in order to ensure effective control of emissions. parliament found that the draft commission regulation submitted would de facto allow a general derogation from the applicable emission limit values and was therefore not in line with union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6). there should be set a more efficient emission measurement while driving identified vehicles (euro6) in actual driving conditions in order to ensure control efficiency regarding emissions.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution tabled calling on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft regulation without delay and by 1 april 2016. the decision, which increases the permissible emission limits for nitrogen oxides from diesel engines by more than 100%, is contrary to the interests of citizens and to the objectives of safety and environmental policy. we cannot allow the interests of the automotive industry to be put ahead of public safety and its legitimate expectations. we need to reduce emission limits and ensure that vehicles are much cleaner in terms of atmospheric pollutants that are harmful to human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it was necessary to veto the scandalous decision of the european commission and the member states' representatives to increase the permissible limits for nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines by more than 100%. the re-writing of european union law was decided by experts at the technical level, rather than by elected politicians in the member states. many therefore see this as a breakdown of the democratic decision-making process. it is regrettable that a large number of meps, when voting and deciding which is more important - public health or the interests of the car industry - have nevertheless chosen the interests of the industry in question.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it contains a list of recommendations from parliament to the commission on what should be included in the agreement in the light of the ongoing negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). the european parliament is calling for a trade agreement that gives european consumers more rights and guarantees lower prices, creates more jobs and ensures that workers are kept on the job. any eu trade agreement must open up foreign markets to our businesses and provide a safety net for eu citizens. the tisa agreement should thus increase access to foreign markets, promote best practices and shape globalisation, to ensure that it reflects eu values, principles and interests and helps eu businesses to thrive in global value chains. in the parliament's view, consumer rights and social and environmental standards are not barriers to trade but an indisputable cornerstone of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and therefore the eu's trade policy must always respect the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i support an ambitious tisa because it will help ensure reciprocity for european companies, large and small, in other markets and benefitting european consumers and workers. however, safeguards are necessary for tisa, and i support the following recommendations: tisa must strengthen the global rules-based trading system and encourage reciprocal market access, thereby opening new markets for eu companies, large and small; tisa must contain safeguards for sensitive areas (audio-visual and public services, data protection and mode 4); wherever possible, new countries should be motivated to join the negotiations, to work towards multilateralisation of tisa; and in tisa, as in all trade negotiations, there needs to be transparency, as well as stakeholder and citizen engagement.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report because it missed the opportunity for the european parliament to become a strong player in the negotiations on a trade in services agreement. despite some positive elements showing that not all public and universal services can be negotiated, the european parliament did not support the substantive amendments registered by the greens. they were intended to reinforce the message by stating that compliance with the provisions of the said document would determine whether the european parliament would approve the outcome of the tisa negotiations. the rejection of this amendment weakened the notification, since the commission was left free to disregard it.
in writing. ‒ 90% of new jobs in the european union are created in the service sector, particularly in the high-skilled services sector, such as specialised and information technology-related services. moreover, services account for about 70% of the eu economy. it is for these reasons that the discussion of this matter is justified. i voted in favour of this report because it contains important provisions which recall that the provision of services in the european union must be based on the principles of universal access, high quality, safety, affordability and equal access. these rules must be ensured in all member states in order to ensure transparency in the labour market. this is the only way to protect workers' rights effectively.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution calling for no tolerance of violence against women. according to the eu agency for fundamental rights, one third of women in the eu have experienced physical or sexual violence. the european commission is invited to present a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights. it is necessary to introduce rules to combat violence against women as soon as possible and to urge the european union member states to ratify the istanbul convention without delay. more than half of the eu countries have not done so.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament urges the commission to present a new strategy on women's rights and gender equality in europe. the previous commission strategy on equality between women and men expired in 2015 and parliament explicitly called for a new, separate strategy on gender equality and women's rights beyond 2015 in its resolution of 9 june 2015. in addition, the results of the public consultation showed that 90% of the respondents welcomed the new strategy. unfortunately, the commission did not do its job and on 3 december 2015 the commission published only a staff working document 'strategic action for gender equality 2016-2019'. the commission therefore not only submitted a simplified internal document but also limited its duration. the european parliament welcomes the commission's approach set out in the above-mentioned staff working document on strategic action for gender equality, but regrets the absence of specific indicators and a dedicated budget without which progress towards the objectives and indicators cannot be measured or achieved. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take further action, taking into account the results of the above public consultation and the position of parliament and the council, and to adopt without delay a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, addressing gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights post-2015. gender equality is a core value of the eu – as recognised in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights – which the eu has committed to integrating into all its activities, and whereas gender equality is essential, as a strategic objective, to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it calls on the european commission to develop a new strategy for gender equality. the old strategy expired in 2015. the commission has so far only published a staff working document 'strategic action for gender equality 2016-2019', which is not mandatory and does not have political weight.
in writing. i call on the member states to take further action to address equality issues, to combat violence against women and to ensure equal conditions and opportunities in employment, health and education in the public and private sectors.
for the verts/ale group this is a very timely question. it will be extremely difficult to emerge from the economic crisis and to ensure long-term sustainable economic growth and the well-being of all europeans unless we harness the potential of our cities and regions. the european union does not have the power to determine the internal cohesion of the member states, but the commission has developed open coordination mechanisms, and it is precisely the error of good practice that in many cases becomes the factor that drives change. i would ask the commission to promote the exchange of experience on good governance, in particular by emphasising good practice in involving local and regional authorities in decision-making. i would also like to urge the commission to develop a methodology to assess the effectiveness of the internal administrative structure of the member states. it should focus on the qualitative involvement of local and regional authorities in the decision-making process at national level and on the extent to which local and regional authorities have sufficient and own resources and powers to implement autonomous regional policies or to adapt national regional policy solutions to specific internal needs. the proposal for a partnership is very important, as genuine partnerships between central, local and regional authorities, communities and social partners are still very scarce. it is more formal, despite the fact that local authorities and communities are the closest to the people and are the most able to identify the most urgent needs and plan actions, especially in the light of regional disparities that are only deepening as migration flows, globalisation and climate change take their toll.
in writing. eu cohesion policy remains the main instrument of investment for the 2014-2020 programming period, covering all eu regions. it is also an opportunity to better start a bottom-up process to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of the local and regional economy, as well as to improve the quality of life of citizens, build solidarity and strengthen the development of the eu's regions. the erdf regulation provides that 5% of the erdf should be allocated to promoting integrated sustainable urban development actions and that the bodies at urban, subregional and local level responsible for the implementation of sustainable urban strategies should be responsible for actions, at least in relation to the selection of operations. i would therefore like to emphasise once again that strengthening the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities and reducing structural weaknesses are crucial both in the programming and implementation phases of the operational programmes and in order to achieve a higher level of use of the esi funds. i therefore urge the commission to ensure that local and regional authorities, their administrations and bodies are provided with capacity-building support to enable them to play their crucial role in the implementation of cohesion policy, especially when implementation tasks are delegated to lower-level administrations, in particular to city administrations.
author.– madam president, russia’s president, vladimir putin, in a recent interview he gave to the german newspaper bild said the following: ‘the nationalist group in the ukrainian capital of kyiv in february 2014 has hugely scared 2.5 million russian people living in crimea. so what did we do? we have not gone to war; we have not fired; not a single person was killed’. president putin, you keep lying to the whole world. as the chief commander of your little, polite and green men, you bear a personal responsibility for those who have disappeared or been murdered since 2014 in crimea. let me read the following names of crimean tatars who lost their lives: reshat ametov, timur shaymardanov, seran zinedinov, islam dzheparov, dzhevdet islamov, eskender apsalyamov, ruslan ganiyev, arlen terekhov. the list is not complete. let us not repeat the mistakes of the 20th century. let us call things by their right names.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the 2015 serbian progress report. it welcomes the start of negotiations on serbia's accession to the eu and the progress made in 2015 towards normalising relations between serbia and kosovo. i support the calls for belgrade and pristina to implement as soon as possible the agreements adopted, the implementation of which is one of the conditions for serbia's eu membership. serbia must continue to implement systemic reforms, ensure that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as the media, is not influenced by politicians, and step up the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the way in which parliament has assessed the 2015 progress report of serbia. parliament welcomed the opening of negotiations at the 2015 intergovernmental conference in brussels and the opening of the negotiating chapter on financial control and the chapter on the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo. parliament also welcomed serbia's continued commitment to the european integration process and noted that serbia had embarked on an ambitious reform agenda. parliament therefore continues to call on serbia to undertake systemic and socioeconomic reforms with determination and without reservations, with particular attention to youth reforms. parliament also noted the need to increase efforts in the fight against organised crime and to build up experience in the final sentencing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the progress repost on serbia 2015. serbia has made positive progress in various areas. serbia is moderately prepared in the area of public administration reform. good progress has been achieved with the adoption of a comprehensive action plan. serbia needs to remain committed and implement its reform targets. however, the country should still put efforts to prevent corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution assessing serbia's progress towards eu membership in 2015. the resolution discusses democratic reforms, the rule of law, the human rights situation in serbia, as well as the country's environmental, transport, energy and regional cooperation policies, and identifies the main areas of reform that would need to be implemented in order to integrate into the eu.
in writing. it is welcome that serbia has finally embarked on an ambitious reform agenda. it is the first step towards the eu and the country is ready to meet all the requirements of the european integration process. it should be noted that serbia has to meet requirements which are not only economic but also political. in particular, the country must undertake systemic and socioeconomic reforms with determination and without compromise. strengthen economic governance, the rule of law and public administration capacity, and strengthen regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. in addition, there is a need to create better investment conditions throughout serbia and to reduce economic and social disparities between its regions. more attention should be paid to the implementation of the rule of law, the strengthening of trust in judicial institutions and the direct strengthening of cooperation between law enforcement authorities and liaison offices in serbia and kosovo in belgrade and pristina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is very important to monitor serbia's progress in implementing reforms. equally important is to identify serbia's achievements and to assess the country's potential challenges. the report also calls for greater focus on clean energy in serbia. at the same time, the commission is invited to support the efforts of the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on imported energy by diversifying the supply of serbian gas. these steps are important not only for serbia but also for the european union in the context of both security and climate change.
in writing. i stress the importance of the rule of law; i stress the crucial importance of independent judicial institutions; notes that, although some progress has been made in the area of judicial authorities, in particular with regard to the adoption of rules on the evaluation of judges and prosecutors, there is still a high degree of political interference in this area; i call on the authorities to implement the national strategy for judicial reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on kosovo's european integration process. five eu member states have still not formally recognised kosovo. all eu member states should recognise kosovo and thus contribute to strengthening regional stability and normalising relations between serbia and kosovo. the eu-kosovo association agreement, ratified by the ep on 21 january, is a reform package that paves the way for kosovo's eu integration. the independence of the media and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime and labour market reforms are among the most urgent issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is a way for parliament to assess kosovo's progress towards eu membership in 2015. parliament welcomed the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo in 2015, which established the first contractual relations, and the swift ratification of the agreement by the assembly of the republic of kosovo on 2 november 2015. parliament stressed that the stabilisation and association agreement would facilitate kosovo's integration into the eu, give a strong impetus to the implementation of reforms and institutionalisation, and enable cooperation with the eu to be established in a number of areas, alongside improving relations with neighbouring countries and helping to ensure stability in the region with a view to enhanced political dialogue and closer integration of trade. it therefore called on the government of kosovo to devote particular attention to the implementation of the comprehensive reforms necessary to meet the commitments under the stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of european integration process of kosovo. the parliament welcomes the progress made in 2015 in reaching agreements in the framework of the process of normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia an the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement on 27 october 2015. there is important now to provide a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms and allow the establishment of cooperation with the eu in a wide variety of areas, with a view to enhancing political dialogue and closer trade integration in addition to strengthening relations with neighbouring countries and helping to ensure regional stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution which assesses kosovo's progress towards eu membership in 2015. i believe that the stabilisation and association agreement will facilitate kosovo's integration into the eu, will give a strong impetus to the implementation of democratic reforms in the country, will ensure stability in the region and will promote closer trade links.
in writing. i agree with the progress reports on kosovo. it is welcome that kosovo has made significant progress in strengthening the economic dialogue with the eu and has presented its first economic reform programme. this is a good sign that kosovo is moving towards the eu, but there is still a lot of reform to be done to implement european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property, consumer protection. in particular, the issue of the number of missing persons during the period of the great war is still not being adequately addressed. furthermore, more measures are needed to ensure the adequate protection of the rights of all religious minorities, including kosovo christians. the eu has also made insufficient progress in tackling high-level corruption and organised crime. it is recalled that the commission should address the issue of kosovo's visa liberalisation process more actively, taking into account kosovo's progress in implementing the visa liberalisation action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it lays the foundations for further rapprochement between kosovo and the eu. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement, signed on 27 october 2015, provides an excellent basis for the establishment of the first contractual relations, as well as a powerful impetus for reforms and a means of establishing cooperation in a wide range of areas. i think this resolution is a good example of the ep's strong desire to work with kosovo and its expressed full support for helping to resolve the fundamental problems of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal to continue aid to libya. i agree that the un-backed libyan political agreement signed on 17 december 2015 is an important step in supporting the building of a democratic and peaceful country. it is important to support the government of national unity, formed by consensus of the libyan parties, as the sole legitimate government of libya. the security impact of the libyan conflict in its immediate neighbours, in particular egypt and tunisia, as well as in algeria, remains one of the most pressing issues. the activity of extremist organisations and movements in libya is also of great concern. these groups pose a major threat to the stability and security of the whole region in europe. i support calls for continued humanitarian, financial and political assistance to libya.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it was the first time that parliament had taken stock of the situation in libya. in libya, the political vacuum and lack of a stable government following the overthrow of the gaddafi dictatorship has been exploited by the group daesh, which includes foreigners and libyan terrorists who returned to the country after fighting in iraq and syria. in libya, the daesh group has become the largest outside the middle east and the country is the main hub for the group's forces on the southern mediterranean coast, with terrorist acts posing a major threat to neighbouring countries in the sahel and sahara, as well as to europe. parliament regretted that the house of representatives in tobruk had rejected the first proposal for a unity government and called on the two main libyan institutions to endorse this proposal, which is an important step in the implementation of the libyan political agreement and aims to pursue peace and stability in the country and to protect all libyan citizens. parliament therefore warned that it would recognise and support the libyan government of national unity, formed by consensus of the libyan parties, as the only legitimate government of libya, and stressed that libya must take control of the political process and that it was important to continue to ensure that it was inclusive, including in a constructive way, with the inclusion of tribal councils, the positive participation of women and civil society, and the contribution of political and local actors, in order to ensure the timely replacement and adoption of a constitution that would enshrine democracy, human rights and civil liberties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to the motion on situation in libya. the parliament welcomes the un-backed libyan political agreement signed on 17 december 2015. there is important, however that all parties in libya must commit to the protection of civilians at all times, and they should be treated in accordance with international human rights and humanitarian law. the motion stressed that the attacks intentionally directed against personnel involved in humanitarian assistance or a peacekeeping mission in accordance with the un charter are under the protection of the rome statute of the icc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution assessing the situation in libya. the terrorist group daesh has emerged in this country since the overthrow of the gaddafi dictatorship and poses a grave threat not only to the people of this country but also to neighbouring countries and europe. in the resolution, the european parliament calls on the libyan political forces to unite and, in accordance with the principles of justice, form a government that will ensure peace and stability in the country and protect all its citizens. in the resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to focus its support on the establishment of libyan state institutions and, together with the member states, the un, nato and regional partners, to help reform the security sector, to establish an effective national army and police force under the control of the government of national unity, capable of controlling the entire territory and waters of libya and protecting its borders. the resolution stresses that the eu should also give priority to supporting the reform of the libyan justice system, as well as other areas that are critical to democratic governance. i believe that the eu's contribution is important for ensuring political stability in libya and other countries in the region, as it is one of the ways to control the flow of refugees and migrants into the eu.
in writing. the situation in libya remains extremely complex. it is therefore essential to implement a political agreement as soon as possible. this is a necessary measure to help the country to move towards peace and stability and to ensure the safety of all libyan citizens. it is vital that the national unity government be recognized by the warring political forces. to prevent the establishment of the daesh group, it is necessary to join forces not only at national level but also at international level by forming an international coalition. moreover, greater international support should be devoted to state and institution building, security and peace-keeping, and justice system reform, as well as other areas of critical importance to democratic governance. humanitarian funding should also be increased to meet the most urgent needs of people who have been severely affected by the conflict in libya.
in writing. i call on all actors in the region, including the arab league and the african union, to work together with the un and other international organisations to help build a stable, inclusive and democratic libya. i support the libyan political agreement and the un-led negotiations and call on all parties to work together towards national unity, stability and inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reduce the barriers to the eu's island regions. i agree that the commission should take concrete action to tackle the obstacles faced by eu islands and to exploit their full potential. the eu islands are also peripheral regions at the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and increasing migration flows, particularly in the south. i agree that the commission should take into account other statistical indicators besides gdp which may reflect the economic and social vulnerability of islands to persistent natural handicaps. the commission should initiate a thorough investigation and analysis of the additional costs incurred by the island in terms of energy supply and market access for its transport system for people and goods as a result of its situation. the commission should establish an eu strategic framework for the islands to link measures that can have a significant territorial impact.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a resolution in which parliament has assessed the special situation of the islands. whereas the economic crisis has led to a sharp reduction in the national and regional budgets of many member states, as a result of limited funding opportunities in many sectors, leading to a 20% reduction in public investment; whereas, as indicated in the sixth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion, the crisis has severely affected the development potential of many disadvantaged regions, including islands; the eu islands are also peripheral regions at the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges currently facing europe, such as the impact of globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and increasing migration flows, particularly in the south. parliament therefore called on the commission to provide a clear definition of the types of persistent geographical, natural and demographic barriers faced by island regions. parliament also asked the commission to explain how it intends to implement the wording of article 174 of the eu treaty on the persistent obstacles faced by island regions which hamper the natural development of island regions and the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to the resolution on insularity condition. the parliament recognises, in accordance with the eurostat definition, the difference between islands in general and islands with a national capital, and the importance of providing support to tackle the significant depopulation trend in island regions. moreover, the commission is encouraged to provide a clear definition of the type of geographical, natural and demographic permanent handicaps that insular regions can suffer from, with reference to article 174 of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution by which the european parliament recognised the special situation of islands. the crisis has severely affected the development prospects of many disadvantaged regions, including islands. the eu's islands, peripheral regions at the eu's external borders, are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe today, such as the impact of globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and - especially in the southern areas - increasing migration flows. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to provide a clear definition of the types of persistent geographical, natural and demographic barriers faced by island regions and to explain how the commission intends to overcome these barriers in order to promote the development and economic, social and territorial cohesion of island regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it draws attention to the difficult situation of the islands in the european union. the text refers to the fact that mediterranean islands are being flooded by large numbers of migrants, that many islands are still isolated and lack adequate digital capacity, and that they do not exploit the potential of wind, solar and water, which can become important alternative energy sources. i think this is a very important aspect that would allow the islands to solve at least part of their problems and help their people save money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in relation to the european structural and investment funds. the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period is the main instrument for investment across all eu regions to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation. i agree that there is a need to seek greater synergies and complementarities between the esi funds and other eu programmes. in this area, local and regional authorities can play an important role in achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. i also support calls on the commission to ensure that local and regional authorities, their administrations and bodies are provided with capacity-building support to enable them to play a significant role in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is a resolution in which parliament has assessed the role of local and regional authorities in implementing the european structural and investment funds. the eu's cohesion policy remains the key instrument for the 2014-2020 programming period, an investment tool that covers all eu regions and, at the same time, provides an opportunity to better launch a bottom-up process to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of the local and regional economies, while improving the quality of life of citizens, building solidarity and strengthening the development of eu regions. parliament reiterated the central role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategies, while recognising the role of the various stakeholders from member states and community groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. regional and local authorities are close to citizens and better understand local needs as well as policies and initiatives aimed at improving citizens’ lives. cities are engines of economic growth and employment, breeding grounds for art, culture and creativity, and the perfect platform for innovation and start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is an important one and draws attention to several aspects. the first is the need to ensure that local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process at national level. secondly, it underlines the need for partnerships that must be based on the specific needs and characteristics of the region, given that different regions face different challenges of globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increasing urbanisation or other.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the saudi-led military intervention in yemen has created a catastrophic humanitarian situation that is affecting populations across the country, has serious consequences for the region and poses a threat to international peace and security. since the start of the conflict, at least 5 979 people have been killed, almost half of them civilians, and 28 208 injured. i agree with the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the un and i support calls for all parties to contribute to yemen's humanitarian needs. all countries must allow the entry and supply of urgently needed food, medicine and other necessary aid. i support calls for the eu to promote effective compliance with international humanitarian law. saudi arabia and iran must work together to resolve this crisis, act pragmatically and in good faith, and end the fighting in yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it was the one where parliament spoke about the humanitarian situation in yemen. the current crisis in yemen is one consequence of the failure of successive governments to meet the legitimate expectations of the yemeni people regarding democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. this failure has created the conditions for violent conflict, with the failure to form an inclusive government and a fair sharing of power, and the systematic ignoring of the country's ethnic divisions, insecurity and economic paralysis. the military intervention in yemen, which included the use of internationally banned cluster bombs and resulted in a catastrophic humanitarian situation affecting populations throughout the country, has serious consequences for the region and constitutes a threat to international peace and security. the civilian population in yemen is the first casualty of the current military conflict, as houthi rebels have begun to besiege taiz, yemen's third largest city, and are obstructing the delivery of humanitarian aid to the city. parliament therefore stressed the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the auspices of the un and urged all parties to contribute to meeting humanitarian needs. parliament called on all parties to the conflict to allow the entry and supply of urgently needed food, medicine, fuel and other necessary assistance through the un and international humanitarian channels in order to meet the immediate needs of the civilian population affected by the crisis, in accordance with the principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the resolution about humanitarian situation in yemen. the resolution expresses great concern at the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen, which is characterised by widespread food insecurity and severe malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks against civilians and medical and aid workers. it stresses the need for coordinated humanitarian action under un leadership, and urges all countries to contribute to addressing humanitarian needs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this motion, which seeks to strongly condemn the group isis and its human rights violations, which seek to exterminate local religious and ethnic minorities and their religious and cultural heritage. the treatment of religious minorities by the islamic state must be recognised as genocide and the perpetrators sharply punished. such actions amount to crimes against humanity. i support calls for eu countries to actively combat radicalisation and to legally prevent their citizens from joining isis, and to prosecute as soon as possible those who join or provide support to the group online. i agree that it is necessary to appoint an eu special representative on freedom of religion or belief.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it addressed the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by the so-called da'esh group. the un secretary-general has recognised the violent extremism ideology of the so-called isis (da'esh) group, its acts of terrorism, its persistent, brutal, systematic and widespread attacks against the civilian population, its violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including those on religious or ethnic grounds, the destruction of cultural heritage and the trafficking of cultural property, as a common and unprecedented threat to international peace and security. reiterates its strong condemnation of the so-called isis (da'esh) group and its appalling human rights violations, which amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes under the rome statute of the international criminal court, and which could also be recognised as genocide by the un security council. parliament expressed its deep concern at the deliberate attacks by this terrorist group on christians (chaldeans, syrians, assyrians, melkites, armenians), yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabai, kakaas and sunnis who disagree with the group's interpretation of islam as one of the attempts to exterminate all religious and ethnic minorities in the territories under its control. parliament also urged the un security council members to support the proposal that the security council refer the matter to the international criminal court to investigate the abuses committed against religious and ethnic minorities by the so-called isis (da'esh) group in iraq and syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the resolution of systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis. the document stressed massive human rights abuses by isis, which amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes. it is extremely concerned at this terrorist group’s deliberate targeting of christians, yazidis, turkmens, shi’ites, shabaks, sabeans, kaka’i and sunnis who do not agree with their interpretation of islam. the resolution urges the members of the un security council to support a referral by the security council to the international criminal court in order to investigate violations committed in iraq and syria by isis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the systematic and mass killings of religious minorities by isis. the crimes and attacks against religious and ethnic communities in isis-controlled areas should be strongly condemned. crimes against christians that bear the hallmarks of ethnic cleansing are particularly to be condemned. the resolution also rightly condemns the destruction of sites of religious significance and cultural property, which is identified with an attack on the cultural heritage of syria and iraq and of all humanity. as the european parliament, we must take a clear position on this issue in order to send a clear signal to the perpetrators of the genocide.
in writing. strongly condemn the widespread atrocities committed by the group da'esh, including the deliberate targeting of religious and ethnic communities in areas occupied by the group; call on the eu and its member states to actively contribute and take practical and political measures, including through the un, to find solutions to these conflicts, in order to alleviate the suffering and persecution of millions of people of all religions and ethnic groups.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. dear mr. carr, i think you've actually said a lot, but many of us here believe that the united kingdom should stay, and i think common sense should prevail. but there's nothing better than being ready for it right now. do you not think that the european commission should start preparing some kind of blueprint of the measures that the united kingdom will face if they actually leave the european union? we have to talk about the need in the future to establish the city of london, as we once established the rating agencies in our own european union, we have to start talking about changes in trade agreements, about how if they use our infrastructure, norway will have to pay certain contributions to our budget. we need to tell the people of the united kingdom what they will face if they make this decision. what do you think?
in writing. a uk exit from the eu would not only be unprofitable for one half but also a threatening event in the context of the crises that are affecting the community today. i am therefore pleased that a compromise agreement was reached at the european council last week. eu leaders have shown that there is a common understanding of the threats and a willingness to compromise in response. this european unity and ability to talk together is needed today more than ever, because the eu as a global actor has a responsibility not only for the development of its members but also for the development of the world. but we must ensure that this agreement does not become the basis for the development of a two-speed europe. the uk's membership ensures a balanced system of checks and balances within the eu when it comes to the question of which direction, deepening or enlarging, the eu should take, a question which has been the subject of deep debate since the beginning of european integration. london brings the enthusiasts of unconditional integration back to reality by asking fundamental questions. britain also plays a role as a bridge to transatlantic cooperation - particularly important in today's fragile international environment. i would point out that the agreement reached, which is mutually satisfactory in principle, obliges the uk leaders to convince the eurosceptically disposed sections of the public that the alternative to leaving the eu would be a dangerous uncertainty not only for the community but also for britain itself.
madam president, the single market is actually the biggest and most successful achievement that we have in the european union, and we should be proud of it. in the last 50 years it has generated opportunities, created jobs and offered greater choice at lower prices for consumers. but the work is far from finished and a lot of challenges are still ahead. single market governance is a top priority, and the european semester is a wonderful tool for that. i strongly believe that the eu should use the momentum of the collaborative economy. the commission and member states should encourage the development of new business models by ensuring the best possible conditions for them to develop and thrive. the commission and member states should work better to enforce the mutual recognition principle as this is crucial for the better functioning of the single market. furthermore, the single market needs new market surveillance and product safety legislation at european level. i strongly encourage the commission to take the lead there.
the benefits of economic growth and job creation must first be felt by our people. yes, the recovery is on the rise, and we have to admit that: employment is up a little bit, unemployment is down. but, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to draw your attention to a major problem in our european union countries, namely child poverty. as many as 27% of children in the european community live in poverty. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to create a child guarantee, that is to say, a measure with a certain specific budget, under which our children could receive free health care, education, decent housing, adequate nutrition. secondly, i want to draw attention to the poverty of women. however, i would urge the commission and the member states to put forward specific recommendations and measures to reduce the gender pay and pension gap.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add a word of praise to mr rodriguez's report. this is the commission's message and i think it is fundamentally wrong to think that member states should be penalized for errors or shortcomings in cohesion management by restricting cohesion support to them or by imposing ex ante conditionality. i do not see a positive link between economic governance and cohesion policy. both issues are very important, but we cannot go down to a strictly instrumental approach, as the commission proposes. these issues must be addressed separately, rather than one condition being the other. i also regret that the rapporteurs have not succeeded in incorporating this provision in their report. in the area of cohesion policy, sanctions on member states not only undermine good governance but also hamper economic growth.
i thank the rapporteur, mr becker, for a good job, because we are indeed aiming to strengthen the eures platform with this regulation and make it a really effective tool for people interested in labour mobility in the european union. and one of the most important improvements is to increase transparency, by making it possible to review as many vacancies as possible in one place at a pan-european level. it is also important to seek to include apprentices and trainees in this network, but of course on the condition that they are covered by normal employment relationships. all jobseekers must therefore be given access to detailed information on the working conditions at the workplace. i am pleased that the negotiations on this regulation have succeeded in strengthening the role of the social partners in the network's activities, so that we have made it easier for both workers and employers to obtain the information they need for employment. it is also essential that the main services of the eures network are free of charge and thus more accessible to the jobseeker.
in writing. today we are talking about a very important topic: work. the conclusions drawn from the high unemployment rates in some european regions suggest that labour mobility in the eu should be strengthened in order to increase the employability of workers and to help employers to fill vacancies better and faster. member states should therefore set up national coordination centres to provide joint support and assistance to all organisations operating in their territory that support cooperation with relevant organisations in other member states, in particular neighbouring ones. such coordination centres should, in particular, be entrusted with the handling of complaints and problems relating to job vacancies and with the verification of compliance aspects relating to voluntary and fair labour mobility within the union. the increasing interdependence of labour markets calls for closer cooperation between employment services, particularly in border regions, in order to ensure the free movement of all workers within the union in accordance with the principles of voluntary and fair labour mobility. this should certainly be done throughout the union and in accordance with the treaties, without any discrimination. a common framework for cooperation between the member states and the commission should be established . this should be based on the pooling of all job offers from across the eu and the possibility for workers and employers to apply for jobs through a job placement agency. it is also necessary to define a common approach to the exchange of information and to the provision of personalised advisory services necessary to facilitate such cooperation.
in writing. the european ombudsman's task is to protect the rights of persons with disabilities and to ensure that the eu administration is aware of its responsibilities in respect of these rights. persons who consider that an eu institution is not complying with the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities have the right to complain to the ombudsman. in early 2014, the ombudsman's team was joined by a seconded national expert whose task is to help develop a work programme on disability issues and to find ways to better reach citizens and staff of the eu institutions and inform them of their rights and obligations under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament supports the ombudsman in that the eu institutions should ensure that disabled people have access to their services and that they can access information and communication. parliament also called on the eu institutions to ensure that working environments are open, inclusive and accessible to people with disabilities, so that they can participate effectively and fully in political and public life. the ombudsman also meets regularly with members of the european parliament and officials of the institutions to discuss ways of improving the quality of administration, to emphasise the proper handling of complaints and to ensure appropriate follow-up to the ombudsman's recommendations and communications. the european parliament calls on the ombudsman to continue to support the european network of ombudsmen in order to better inform eu citizens about the division of competences between the european ombudsman, national and regional ombudsmen and parliament's committee on petitions.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i want to thank most sincerely all those who have taken the floor. very clearly this is an issue that is on top of our minds as a concern for many of us, and also very clearly there are certain points on which we have full agreement: firstly, that we ought to concentrate our efforts on making sure that the tobacco directive becomes effective by may 2019, as well as that the who protocol is ratified by at least 40 countries, so it can become effective at the earliest possible time which is 2022, no later. secondly, there is full agreement in this chamber and full agreement from the side of the commission that we ought to fight illegal smuggling of cigarettes. not only does that come from the companies covered by agreements, but especially the so-called ‘cheap whites’ that have taken the space that used to be taken by the companies. where there are clearly also differences in views is around what we do between now and 2019, and what we do between now and 2022. there have been very fair comments made that it has taken the commission time to complete the assessment. just listening to us in this chamber – the divergence of views, the difficulty of the questions that are being asked – this is why it has taken us so much time. we have promised to make sure that we involve all our services, including, in particular, our health service, and we have done it. now we have an assessment that we all have subscribed to, but it has taken time because the questions we are debating are not easy. so what do i take out of this discussion today? i take a recognition that we have to deliver on the issues where we have full agreement, and that we need to focus our efforts where it matters the most. and i also take under advisement the views that have been expressed on what we do between now and then, and i can tell you we will reflect on those very carefully. going back in history, parliament was very supportive of the signing of the agreements – for a reason, because at that time we had nothing. and now parliament is not so supportive – there are divergent views. why? because we have better tools to fight illegal smuggling. but we do not quite have them just yet, and this is what puts us in a debate that we have to integrate in our decision. i was asked a specific question – what information do we use? we use information on seizures from the 28 member states, provided to us on a daily basis. we also use data from euromonitor, and we are currently discussing with our health colleagues the carrying-out of a targeted study on the illicit tobacco market in the eu, with an eye to focusing attention on the ‘cheap whites’ and strengthening our fight against their smuggling. again i want to confirm that, on transparency, we have made the agreements available to parliament, and we will do all we can to promote more transparency in the future. again, thank you for the debate, and of course we will come back to you on this issue whenever you invite us to do so.
in writing. one of the four eu cooperation agreements with tobacco companies, the agreement with philip morris international, will expire in july 2016. under the agreements, tobacco manufacturers agreed to pay the eu and its member states $2.5 billion to settle outstanding cigarette smuggling claims. they also committed themselves to actively combating smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products. however, it is clear that there is a serious lack of evidence of the benefits of this partnership for the member states. those agreements do not contribute in any way to the reduction of the consumption of tobacco products. white cigarettes, which have no labels, are also common in europe. this shows that the fight against smuggling is not effective, although the overall volume of cigarette smuggling seized has decreased. this is, by the way, the only significant factor, and the reasons for this can be very diverse, for example, better control of the member states. equally important, despite the dubious benefits of the agreements, there is a risk that the european commission will re-sign agreements with tobacco companies without parliament's opinion. if this were to happen, the commission would once again demonstrate that it does not want to ensure democratic decision-making processes.
the notifier. ladies and gentlemen, the 1965 hague convention establishes a framework for simplifying the exchange of documents between the countries of the european union, simplifying and facilitating judicial cooperation in cross-border and civil and commercial disputes, and thus the convention is proving useful. the convention is used by 25 countries of the european union. following the expression of the wishes of austria and malta to accede to the hague convention, following lengthy discussions in the council and the clarification of the court of human rights, the two member states are given the opportunity to accede to the convention. i therefore urge my colleague to support this recommendation and to allow austria and malta to accede to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to allow austria and malta to accede to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby documents may be served in another state party to the convention. of the 28 member states, the convention is already applied in 26 of them. the other two member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. malta has already deposited its instrument of accession to the convention but has prepared a declaration that its accession will not take effect until this decision is adopted. austria is awaiting this decision in order to complete the accession formalities. since the two member states concerned are interested in the application of a single procedure for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries, i support the proposal to allow austria and malta to accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this document because it gives parliament its support for the decision authorising austria, in the interests of the european union, to sign and ratify the 1965 hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and authorising malta to accede to it. the 1965 hague convention establishes a framework under which documents may be served in another state party to the convention. it should be noted that this convention applies only to the cross-border service of documents in or received from third countries. for cross-border service of documents in the european union, regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters applies. the convention is currently applied in 26 of the 28 member states. the other two member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. international organisations shall not be admitted to accede to the convention. the eu has acquired exclusive external competence in this area with the adoption of eu legislation on crossborder service of documents. this means that the union must authorise the member states concerned to act on its behalf in order for them to accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the draft council decision because member states cannot conclude the hague service convention without being authorised to do so. therefore, 24 member states had acceded to the hague service convention before the adoption of eu legislation. the remaining member states which have to be authorised to accede to the convention are austria and malta. these countries should sign it in the interest of the european union because it will make the process of authorisation in regards to the hague service convention much easier.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to allow austria and malta to accede to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. all eu member states, with the exception of austria and malta, are signatories to this convention. the benefits of this convention in the field of cross-border service of documents are undeniable, and in maintaining cross-border relations with third countries, the eu countries have an interest in applying a single procedure for the service of documents.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this recommendation because i see no reason why we should prevent the republic of austria from signing and ratifying the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and malta from acceding to the said convention. it should be noted that this convention is already applied in 26 member states and will be extended to all eu member states following the accession of austria and malta.
in writing. i particularly support this recommendation as the hague convention establishes a framework to facilitate the exchange of documents between the countries of the european union. simplifies and facilitates judicial cooperation in cross-border, civil and commercial disputes. the convention has proved its usefulness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the european union and san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information with a view to enhancing international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation on 8 december 2015. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it provides for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts between the eu and san marino for their residents as from 2017. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the aim is also to ensure that information is exchanged not only on income such as interest and dividends, but also on account balances and income from the sale of financial assets. the new agreement will enable tax administrations in the member states and san marino to: identify correctly and clearly the taxpayers concerned; administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border cases; assess the possibility of tax evasion; and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the eu-republic of san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. this agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and it builds on the 2004 agreement which ensured that san marino applied measures equivalent to those of the eu savings directive on taxation of income. the new agreement will allow the eu and san marino to exchange information on financial accounts held by their residents automatically from 2017. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that san marino applies more stringent measures that are equivalent to the eu legal order, as improved in december 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the eu and san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information. this is an important step towards fighting corruption in the area of tax in the country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement aims to ensure that san marino applies stricter measures equivalent to the eu legal order. the signing of the agreement will also allow for a more operational response to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it expresses the european parliament's full support for the agreement signed between the european union and san marino. the agreement is a further step towards closer cooperation, in which financial information on accounts held by residents will be shared. this will help to avoid tax evasion and reduce the cost of expensive investigations into cases of abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the 2011 treaty of accession of the republic of croatia provides for a simplified framework for the conventions concluded by the member states of the eu following the accession of croatia. to this end, the council will adopt a decision fixing the date on which these conventions enter into force for croatia and will make any adjustments to these conventions necessary for the accession of the new member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the ec's financial interests. in pursuit of the objectives of the union, member states shall regard the fight against crime affecting the financial interests of the european communities as a matter of common interest. this convention consists of: the convention on the protection of the communities' financial interests, designed specifically to combat fraud affecting those interests, and the protocol on combating in particular acts of corruption involving officials of the member states and of the community which affect or threaten to affect the financial interests of the european communities, and the protocol on liability of legal persons, confiscation, money laundering and cooperation between the member states and the commission to protect the financial interests of the european communities and the personal data relating thereto.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the recommendation of the commission to fix a date for the entry into force of this convention for croatia and to make all the adjustments to these conventions necessary for the accession of the new member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, like my green/european free alliance colleagues, i agree that croatia should accede to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. this step should help to combat fraud in croatia itself and is also in line with the protection of the european union's own financial interests. i am pleased that this vote has shown that the majority of other members of the european parliament are of a similar scale.
in writing. the 2011 treaty of accession of the republic of croatia provides for a simplified framework for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union (formerly article k.3 of the treaty on european union). article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession provides that croatia is hereby acceding to those conventions and protocols.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank rapporteur heinz becker for his excellent report. unfortunately, unemployment in the eu still persists. this is an extremely harmful phenomenon affecting many individuals and their families. however, there are still two million job vacancies throughout the member states. the eures platform will help bring the unemployed and employers seeking employees across the eu together. moreover, working abroad will be a great experience for the workers involved, as well as bringing europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the reform of the european employment service (eures). this new system will make it easier to find a suitable job in the eu and will allow employers to select workers more quickly for vacancies. the reform aims to ensure better job and recruitment services across europe and to avoid a labour force imbalance in europe where some countries have high unemployment and others have or are starting to have a shortage of workers. the new rules are good news for people looking for work in the european union. cvs of jobseekers will be automatically linked to vacancies. all of this will be done free of charge. in addition, all publications of the employment services of the eu member states will be available on a single eures web portal. it is also essential that eures services become accessible to people with disabilities. eures is a cooperation network between the european commission and the employment services of the eu member states and switzerland, norway, iceland and liechtenstein, established in 1993. it shall exchange information on job vacancies and living and working conditions. the network employs about 150 000 people a year.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the improved rules of the european employment services (eures). these new rules will allow jobseekers to automatically link their cvs to job vacancies. in addition, the publications of all the eu employment services will be available on a single web portal. the reform, already agreed with the eu council, aims to ensure better job and recruitment services across europe, facilitate labour mobility and avoid situations where some countries experience high unemployment while others experience labour shortages. the new rules will allow jobseekers to automatically link their cvs to job vacancies. this service will be free of charge and accessible to disabled people. in addition, the advertisements of all the eu employment services will be available on the eures web portal. the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that private organisations are also included in the eures network and that border regions receive more information on job vacancies in different eu countries. parliament also succeeded in strengthening the role of the social partners in the eures network.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom of european union citizens and one of the pillars of the internal market. moreover, worker mobility is a key element in the development of a more integrated eu labour market and an important factor to tackle unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. ‒ the eures network of european employment services was set up to reduce unemployment, improve employability and help employers find the people they need more efficiently and quickly. this regulation aims to make the eures network an effective tool for viewing as many job vacancies and jobseeker profiles as possible in one place. the successful operation of the eures network requires, first, the effective participation of public and private employment services in the member states and, second, the communication of the network to the general public by the commission and, in particular, the member states, through intensive means of communication. i hope that the implementation of the regulation will help member states to tackle the serious problems of unemployment and improve the opportunities for people looking for work or for workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the work of the european network of employment services. importantly, the aim is to extend the eures network by enabling employers from public, private and third sector enterprises to post job vacancies on the public eures portal. another important provision is that information on job vacancies must be made available to employees free of charge and without discrimination. thirdly, the communication encourages cooperation between member states to keep workers informed of all job vacancies.
in writing. the freedom to choose a job in the eu freedom of movement, which is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, is an integral part of it and therefore an essential element of eu citizenship. given the high unemployment rates in some european regions, there is a need to increase labour mobility in the eu, improve employability and help employers to fill vacancies more efficiently and quickly. this contributes to the creation of a european labour market with high employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of urgent autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the european commission is proposing to introduce an autonomous trade measure providing for a temporary unilateral tariff quota for tunisia, allowing it to export 35 000 tonnes of olive oil to the union duty-free per year. this quota will be applied for two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this quantity will be available for additional exports by tunisia under the current duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes provided for in the agreement. i agree that the eu should help to revive the economy in tunisia, but the solidarity of the union should not be at the expense of the farmers of southern europe, in this particular case olive growers. the eu is the world leader in olive oil, the production of which should be the main economic and social support in the production areas. it is in the areas of the large eu countries where the economic crisis is even more severe that the olive oil sector provides thousands of jobs and, due to its importance in exporting to third countries, contributes to the positive eu trade balance. i agree that the commission should carry out impact assessments of the proposed measures on the european agricultural sector and amend the measures if it appears that they may harm eu olive oil producers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's view that tunisia should be granted temporary emergency autonomous trade facilitation measures. the 2015 terrorist attacks in tunisia and in sousse in 2015 severely affected the tunisian economy, but tunisia was already experiencing significant economic difficulties before these events. in view of these circumstances, the european union wishes to reaffirm its support for tunisia and therefore takes concrete actions to support the development of the tunisian economy. the european commission is therefore proposing to apply unilaterally and temporarily an autonomous trade measure under which tunisia is to benefit from a tariff quota allowing it to export 35 000 tonnes of olive oil to the union each year duty-free, for a total of 70 000 tonnes, without increasing its total import volume. this quota is fixed for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 and may be applied from the date of exhaustion of the zero-tariff tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force under the union-tunisia association agreement. this measure will be of great benefit to the tunisian economy. the olive sector in tunisia indirectly creates more than one million jobs, representing one fifth of all jobs created in the agricultural sector in the country. olive oil is also the main agricultural product exported from tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the main goal is to improve the relationship between the european union and the republic of tunisia and supporting stability in the region by supporting the tunisian economy. i support the commission’s proposal to offer a temporary zero-duty tariff on a 35 000 (70 000 tonnes in total) quota for exports of olive oil from tunisia into the eu since olive oil is one of the key export products in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ in view of the difficult economic situation in tunisia and the terrorist attacks in spring 2015, which have further weakened the country's economy, the european union is taking concrete action to support the development of the tunisian economy. the regulation provides for a temporary authorisation of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil per year to be exported to the eu duty-free for two years. the measure is expected to benefit the tunisian economy, as the country's olive growing sector indirectly generates more than one million jobs. by committing to such action, the european union is supporting the development of the tunisian economy and at the same time promoting the democratic process in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is an urgent need to provide assistance to tunisia, which is in an unprecedented economic situation. i understand that allowing tunisia to export olive oil to the european union duty-free poses a threat to farmers in southern europe. but i think that already now, oil from tunisia is reaching the eu - but it's not always on the labels. on the other hand, i hope that if the export incentives have a negative impact on europe, we will be able to return to this issue and adjust our strategy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the egf to help belgium to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in two non-metallic mineral products companies. the total amount of the egf for belgium is intended to be eur 1 095 544. it concerns 412 redundant workers. the request was submitted to the commission on 19 august 2015 and the additional information was received by 28 october 2015. these redundancies were the result of the changes that had taken place in recent years in europe and in particular in the belgian glass industry, which had a significant impact on the glass production sector in belgium, in wallonia. the walloon region, with its deep glass production tradition, is currently experiencing serious difficulties in the union trade in glass products, and in addition there is overcapacity in asia, while in europe there are higher production costs and stricter environmental protection standards. tailored services will include support, advice, job search facilitation, training, and business start-up support.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the parliament's endorsement of the commission's decision to mobilise the egf to help belgium to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in two companies active in the glass sector in the belgian regions of hainaut and namur. this is the first application to be examined under the 2016 budget and provides for a total of eur 1 095 544 from the egf for the needs of belgium. it concerns 412 redundant workers and up to 100 targeted young people not in employment, education or training (neets). in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. the belgian authorities argue that the redundancies were the result of the changes that had taken place in europe in recent years, and in particular in the belgian glass industry, which had a significant impact on the glass production sector in belgium, wallonia. the walloon region, with its deep glass production tradition, is currently experiencing serious difficulties in the union trade in glass products, and in addition there is overcapacity in asia, while in europe there are higher production costs and stricter environmental protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the memorandum on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass because following its assessment of this application, the commission has concluded, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the conditions for awarding a financial contribution from the egf are met.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the commission's decision to grant financial support to the regions of namur and hainaut in belgium from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this will be used to train, re-skill and re-integrate the unemployed after two glass factories, unable to cope with competitive pressure, were forced to lay off more than 500 workers.
in writing. i welcome the support for collective projects; i urge the commission to evaluate the results of this type of measure in other applications in order to identify the benefits for participants.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which reaffirms the european parliament's economic, social and single market priorities for 2016. this report is parliament's contribution to the economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester policy coordination process, in response to the commission's annual growth survey. the reports on the employment and social aspects of the european semester and the single market aspects have also been prepared. the resolution notes that the stability and growth pact must be fully implemented and that its flexibility must be used for investment and structural reforms, and in dealing with the refugee and security challenges. it calls for further reductions in labour taxation and the sustainability of social protection systems, improved tax collection, the fight against tax fraud and evasion, measures against aggressive tax planning and tax havens. it is important to reduce the high level of domestic investment deficit and the risk of a rise in the euro exchange rate. it is also necessary to improve the implementation of country-specific recommendations at national level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it is the european parliament's contribution to the definition of economic policy priorities in the 2016 european semester policy coordination process, in response to the commission's annual growth survey and related documents, including the draft recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area. the european semester reports on employment and social aspects and single market aspects are also produced in parallel. all three reports will be discussed with the commission and the council in preparation for the spring european council. the committee's report aims to stimulate debate at european level, including with national parliaments, social partners and civil society, on three key issues: what combination of fiscal, monetary and structural policy measures should the european union implement in 12-18 months? how should policy coordination at the euro area level be improved? how could the priorities and recommendations of the european semester be made more democratic and how could the implementation of the recommendations be improved?
in writing. ‒ i voted against, even though the employment and social situation has slowly improved in the eu and the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has overall stabilised in 2013 and 2014. however, further boosting employment will require new measures such as addressing rigidities in the labour market, skills mismatches, modernising social protection and pension systems, as well as having social partners actively contributing to domestic reform.
in writing. ‒ the the communication on the european semester of economic policy coordination 2016 identifies the main challenges facing competitiveness, financial stability, growth and employment. the report stresses the importance of structural reforms, investment in research and development, resource efficiency, productivity-enhancing innovation and reducing macroeconomic imbalances in order to achieve economic policy objectives. in my view, it is equally important to improve national education, vocational training and lifelong learning systems and to adapt them to the new needs of the labour market. i also support the position of the report that economic growth is inseparable from a citizen-friendly public administration system at all levels of government, as well as effective and transparent public procurement rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i think there are positive aspects to it. the text stresses first of all that macroeconomic imbalances should be reduced by coordinated action by all member states on the basis of appropriate reforms and investments. another important aspect is to seek to give employment indicators (labour force participation, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment) the same status as existing indicators, to ensure that a two-tier approach is not followed and that these indicators should be taken into account in eu policy-making and in guidelines for member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs rodrigues on the fact that the european union is still feeling the effects of the economic crisis, which has caused serious social problems and undermined the potential for economic growth. europeans expect a stronger economic recovery, with quality jobs and economic stability restored. we are facing serious, long-term challenges, such as fragmentation of work, demographic change, and we are in the midst of a shift towards a multipolar world that is taking place right now. this is why we need to develop a long-term strategy for sustainable economic growth. it is time to move towards concrete structural reforms, the main objective of which should be to strengthen the growth potential of the economy by increasing employment and productivity, to promote fair and balanced action to increase social protection, and to reduce social inequalities with a view to restoring a level playing field in the european labour market. this should also be taken into account in the new proposed programme to promote structural reforms.
in writing. citizens expect a stronger economic recovery, quality jobs and a new level of opportunity. we also want to live in a cleaner environment and take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution and other technological innovations. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union's external financing needs, in particular in the light of the union's external financing needs. attention should therefore be given to ways of stimulating debt reduction and new investments to support sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which reaffirms the european parliament's economic, social and single market priorities for 2016. this report is parliament's contribution to the economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester policy coordination process, in response to the commission's annual growth survey. the communication on the employment and social aspects of the european semester and aspects of the single market notes that more efforts are needed to stimulate investment in skills, ensure more inclusive labour markets, create quality jobs and reduce poverty, social exclusion and widening income and welfare disparities while maintaining budgetary discipline. i agree that employment indicators should be given the same status as existing indicators and that they should be taken into due account in eu policy-making and in guidelines for member states. it also calls for further reductions in labour taxation and for the sustainability of social protection systems.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because disparities in employment and social conditions still exist between and within member states, and social developments show that disparities in the eu continue to increase, with negative effects on growth, employment and cohesion; and because societies that are more equal and invest more in people are more resilient in terms of growth and employment. parliament welcomed the commission's call for investment in services, such as housing, healthcare, childcare and rehabilitation services. it is also important to recognise that quality and inclusive workplaces are essential pillars of social justice, promoting human dignity for all. in this respect, quality employment and growth should be at the heart of member states' and eu policy measures, especially those targeting young people and those over 55, as a way of building a more sustainable social economy in the eu. parliament urged the member states to implement and further develop policies to promote youth employment and to adapt these policies to the specific needs of the labour market. parliament also calls on the commission to promote cooperation at member state level in various forms involving governments, enterprises, including social economy enterprises, educational institutions, personalised support services, civil society and social partners, based on the exchange of best practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on european semester for economic policy coordination on employment and social aspects, based on the same reasoning as for the annual growth survey 2016 as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the most pressing employment and social challenges currently facing the member states. the focus is on measures that need to be improved or strengthened to address problems related to poverty and social exclusion, an ageing society, high levels of youth unemployment, inadequate health and long-term care systems. i agree with the report's view that member states should develop their social protection policies in a more coherent and responsible manner, in order to be able to cope with the expected demographic and economic challenges and to improve the resilience of their economies in times of crisis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it stresses even more clearly than the maria joão rodrigues report the need to focus more on social justice through new national stability and reform programmes, supplementing the macroeconomic imbalance procedure with three employment indicators (activity level, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment). the report also stresses the importance of social investment in promoting economic, territorial and social cohesion in europe. the importance of investments in health and long-term care, social services, childcare, housing support and rehabilitation services is highlighted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it raises important issues of concern to young europeans. the youth unemployment rate in the eu stands at 22%, and 12% of young people are not educated, employed or in education, putting this group at risk of being excluded from the labour market, which is affecting the increase in social spending. given that member states have a primary responsibility in tackling youth unemployment, a stronger eu support framework should be established. common labour market regulations for education, training and active policies on unemployment need to be developed and implemented. this assistance should cover in particular new eu countries such as lithuania. because only in this way, by implementing the subsidiarity policy, will we be able to achieve a level playing field in the future between the old and the new parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which reaffirms the european parliament's economic, social and single market priorities for 2016. this report is parliament's contribution to the economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester policy coordination process, in response to the commission's annual growth survey. the communication on the governance of the single market reiterates the call to integrate the single market pillar into the european semester by creating a framework for the continuous monitoring and identification of country-specific barriers to the single market, the assessment of single market integration and competitiveness, and the focus on specific priorities in areas where action would have the greatest impact on growth and job creation, including sustainable business development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the single market is key to growth and job creation in europe. i and my colleagues from the alde group are working intensively for a deeper single market within all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ despite some progress in the member states in simplifying national legislation in various areas to make it more user-friendly and business-friendly, a number of obstacles remain to the integration and strengthening of the single market. the communication on the governance of the single market outlines the main challenges in this area and the measures to overcome them. despite repeated calls by the european council in its conclusions, annual growth reports and country-specific recommendations to strengthen the single market, little progress has been made so far in this regard. i agree with the provisions of the communication that, in order to make the single market work more effectively, member states need to implement single market legislation more responsibly, to ensure compliance and to enforce the rules laid down.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report because it is weak enough and does not propose any really effective measures in general. the green proposals on market surveillance, circular economy and fiscal coordination were not taken into account and are not reflected in the final text. so i think it was pointless to vote for a weak and incomplete report.
in writing. i believe that the single market needs to strengthen, increase the interconnection and staffing of market surveillance authorities to meet today's challenges, especially those arising from global competition; i urge national market surveillance authorities to cooperate more closely and to exchange information and best practices in order to effectively tackle the various forms of unfair competition in the single market, including the high number of illegal and non-compliant products, which impose high costs on compliant companies and high risks on consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia. the eu and tunisia have a close and longstanding relationship, as the eu is tunisia's largest trading partner and tunisia is the eu's 34th partner. this new partnership will open up opportunities for growth and economic convergence between tunisia and the eu. the partnership should also contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia and the recovery of its economy, while also having a positive impact on consumer prices and employment. i support the calls for negotiators to reach an agreement that takes account of the significant economic differences between the two countries, to be flexible in these negotiations, to show a capacity to react quickly and to bear in mind that this agreement should benefit the economy and society of tunisia and the european union. the commission should ensure that these negotiations quickly deliver tangible benefits to the most important sectors of the eu and tunisian economies, as well as to relevant stakeholders, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. the agreement should also contribute to the development and diversification of tunisia's economy, which is currently focused on agriculture, reduce regional disparities and bring tangible benefits to all tunisians and europeans.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament strongly condemns the terrorist attacks which have taken place in tunisia in recent months and which have caused a great number of victims. parliament noted that tunisia's transition to democracy had been the most successful in the region and that it had chosen a unique political and economic development model among the southern mediterranean countries, and called on the european commission to take this fully into account in the negotiations. the european parliament also considers that this agreement covers not only the trade aspect but also that it must necessarily aim to contribute to the stability of tunisia, the strengthening of its democracy and the recovery of its economy, while having a positive impact on both consumer prices and employment, on the salaries of both skilled and unskilled workers, and on reducing the disparities. parliament strongly encourages the commission and the tunisian government to establish a clear and targeted process for the involvement of tunisian and eu civil society at all stages of the negotiations and to use innovative approaches. welcomes the role of tunisian civil society in the first phase of the negotiations and calls for consultations to be open, transparent and to take greater account of the diverse strata of tunisian civil society, building on best practices from other similar negotiations;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia will be beneficial for both parties and builds on the stability in the maghreb region.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the negotiations on a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. i believe that this partnership will benefit both tunisian businesses and those of the eu member states. the agreement will also undoubtedly contribute to the political and democratic stability in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that the eu-tunisia fta negotiations are a great way to help this country. the eu should support tunisia with its knowledge and experience, while encouraging the necessary reforms. equally important, some of them have already begun to be implemented and cannot be stopped. the text also notes that eu financial support and assistance must be transparent and must actually benefit the intended beneficiaries. this is one of the key objectives to ensure that taxpayers' money is used for its intended purpose.
in writing. i hope that this agreement will help to ensure a long-term favourable environment in tunisia, encouraging long-term investment in key, dynamic and value-added sectors of the economy, such as tourism, energy, including renewable energy sources, high-tech services, the digital economy and data exchange. i call on the commission to include a chapter on investment in order to facilitate mutual foreign direct investment between the eu and tunisia and to speed up the establishment of a euro-mediterranean investment and trade facilitation regime.
in writing. ‒ i want to thank european ombudsman mrs o’reilly for her excellent work. her office does its job extremely well, even though they are only 67 people. i think her work has been very significant, especially with regard to frontex and the transparency of ttip negotiations. i hope she will continue her excellent work, not only on the basis of complaints by eu citizens, but of her own accord as well. there is still a lot of work to be done and my expectations – as well as those of the european citizens – are high.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014. in 2014, the ombudsman opened 325 inquiries based on complaints and 17 inquiries on her own initiative, completed 387 inquiries based on complaints and 13 inquiries on her own initiative. the complaints were mainly lodged by individual citizens, companies, associations and other legal entities. in the cases which the ombudsman closed, he identified 39 instances of maladministration and submitted 12 draft recommendations. a draft recommendation shall be drawn up where the institution complained against is able to remedy the maladministration or where the maladministration is serious or of general scope. the european ombudsman works closely with his colleagues in the member states. this cooperation is carried out by the european network of ombudsmen, which brings together national and regional ombudsmen. in many cases, complaints that fall outside the ombudsman's remit can best be resolved by the members of the network, i.e. the ombudsmen of the member states or regions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014. parliament welcomes the investigations launched by the ombudsman in 2014 on the following key themes: transparency of eu institutions, transparency of lobbying and clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, eu-funded projects and programmes and eu competition policy. the european parliament also appreciates the ombudsman's increased focus on transparency in lobbying and its efforts to establish a mandatory transparency register so that citizens can know who is trying to influence eu decision-makers. welcomes the fact that the ombudsman's report on the implementation of the european citizens' initiative (eci) was published in the official journal of the european union on 1 january 2014 and that it was accompanied by a report on the implementation of the eci; parliament notes with concern that representatives of petition organisations are calling for better coordination and better administration of the collection and registration of signatures. it expects proposals for improvement, in particular with regard to the current technical and data protection obstacles to the signature collection process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and encourage the ombudsman to keep up the good work. i compliment the european ombudsman on the successes achieved, especially in difficult ttip negotiations, and encourage promoting the european network of ombudsmen.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the 2014 action plan submitted by the european ombudsman. i believe that the research carried out by this institution on the transparency of the activities of eu institutions, senior officials, lobbyists is important and helps to prevent conflicts of interest at all levels of eu institutions, bodies and agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it reflects very well the active work of ombudsman emily o'reilly. one of the ombudsman's major achievements was the establishment of a mandatory transparency register to register lobbyists. more than 7 000 institutions have already voluntarily signed up to the transparency register. another important work is the effort to ensure openness in the ttip negotiations. it was in response to the ombudsman's inquiry that the council issued the guidelines which the eu uses as negotiating directives in the ttip negotiations. in the meantime, the commission announced plans to increase transparency in lobbying and promised greater access to ttip documents.
in writing. ‒ the there is no doubt that the tasks of the european ombudsman are among the most important in the european union. it is the ombudsman who is the guardian of civil rights and freedoms, and as the report shows, they have been and are being violated. i support this report because it contains an important announcement concerning people with disabilities. the european ombudsman should in future promote measures to better protect the rights of people with disabilities and strive to ensure that eu administrative bodies are aware of their obligations in relation to the protection of the rights of this group. those who feel that the eu institution is not acting in accordance with the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities will have easier access to exercise their rights. it is also worth supporting the continuation of the idea from the beginning of 2014, which included the inclusion of national experts on secondment in the ombudsman's team. their task is to support the ombudsman in the development of a work programme on disability and to find ways of reaching out to eu citizens to inform them of their rights under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. the european ombudsman's task is to protect the rights of persons with disabilities and to ensure that the eu administration is aware of its responsibilities in respect of these rights. persons who consider that an eu institution is not complying with the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities have the right to complain to the ombudsman. in early 2014, the ombudsman's team was joined by a seconded national expert whose task is to help develop a work programme on disability issues and to find ways to better reach citizens and staff of the eu institutions and inform them of their rights and obligations under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report of the european central bank. i agree that there is a need to improve the conditions for both public and private sector investment to stimulate growth and job creation and to make further efforts to secure financing for the real economy. member states must implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms. the ecb must continue to strive to maintain favourable financing conditions, as public and private sector investment in the euro area remains well below its pre-crisis level. the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is important, as is the commission's plan to create a genuine capital markets union (cmu), which should diversify the sources of finance in the eu economy, increase cross-border investment and improve access to finance for businesses, especially smes. the ecb should continue to contribute to efforts to increase low-cost lending to the real economy and to facilitate economic recovery, job creation, growth and stability.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the annual report on the activities of the european central bank (ecb) for 2014. the european parliament stresses that, while the ecb continues to strive to maintain favourable financing conditions, public and private sector investment in the euro area remains significantly lower than before the current crisis, and welcomes the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the commission's plan to create a genuine capital markets union (cmu) which should diversify the sources of financing in the eu economy, increase cross-border investment and improve access to finance for businesses, especially smes. parliament calls on the commission to submit proposals to improve macro risk mitigation supervision and policy measures to reduce shadow banking risks, taking into account the warning in the ecb's annual report that further initiatives are needed to monitor and assess the vulnerability of the growing shadow banking sector in light of the steady increase in non-bank credit intermediation over the last decade. parliament recalls its call for the ecb's annual report to include information on the insights contained in parliament's annual report. it considers it useful for the ecb to include, alongside its assessment of monetary and financial conditions, an assessment of the size of the performance gap in the euro area in its report following the monthly governing council meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the annual report 2014 addresses among other things the tltros, the negative interest rate on deposits, abss, covered bond and government securities purchase programmes and the setting up of the ssm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank. i welcome the decisions taken by the ecb to encourage public and private sector investment to ensure price stability. i also support the view expressed in the resolution that monetary policy cannot solve all the fiscal and economic problems faced by many member states and that appropriate structural reform and fiscal consolidation measures are therefore necessary.
welcomes the emerging general trend among the major central banks, initiated by the ecb, to publicly explain monetary policy decisions immediately after their adoption; i also welcome the publication of clearer and more transparent procedures for emergency liquidity assistance for small financial institutions (mainly national banks) experiencing temporary liquidity problems.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to open negotiations on free trade agreements (ftas) with australia and new zealand. the eu concluded negotiations on the eu-new zealand partnership agreement on relations and cooperation on 30 july 2014 and on the eu-australia framework agreement on 22 april 2015. negotiating two separate and ambitious epas with australia and new zealand is a practical way to develop the bilateral partnership and further strengthen the existing bilateral trade and investment relationship. i support calls on the commission to examine in detail, in the context of the scope-setting study, any additional market access opportunities for european economic operators, in particular smes, that would be provided by a possible fta with australia and new zealand. i agree that the agreements must include investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, the fight against corruption, technological research and, in particular, the needs of smes. the commission should carry out a comprehensive assessment of the sustainability impact of potential agreements as soon as possible in order to fully assess the potential benefits and drawbacks of strengthening trade and investment links between the eu and australia and between the eu and new zealand for both residents and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which underlines the importance of strengthening relations between the eu and the countries of the asia-pacific region for economic growth in europe and stresses that this should be reflected in the european union's trade policy. the european parliament recognises that relations with australia and new zealand are at the heart of this strategy and that developing and strengthening trade with these partners can help achieve this objective. parliament calls on the commission, in its scope-setting study, to examine in detail all additional market access opportunities for european economic operators, in particular smes, that a possible mfa with australia and new zealand would provide and to assess them against any possible market protection interests, bearing in mind that australia and new zealand already have relatively open markets and very low tariffs internationally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. it is important to deepen relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region for economic growth within europe. this is reflected in the european union’s trade policy. australia and new zealand have strong and consistent commitment to the multilateral trade agenda. therefore, these two countries are a key part of this strategy and that widening and deepening trade with these partners can help to meet this goal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the opening of negotiations for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. i believe that such an agreement will create new business opportunities and will benefit consumers. i also strongly support the position expressed in the resolution that it is particularly important to take into account the interests of european producers (e.g. meat, milk, sugar, cereals and textiles) when negotiating a free trade agreement and to agree on bilateral safeguards, for example by providing for transitional periods or appropriate quotas, or by not committing to any commitments in the most vulnerable sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i cannot understand how we can talk about free trade agreements now when european agriculture is barely breathing under the weight of the crisis. new zealand is the world's leading exporter of dairy products. do we need more milk in europe? such an agreement would affect not only milk producers but also meat, cereals, textiles and sugar producers, and would undoubtedly have negative consequences for the fisheries sector. despite the fact that the text refers to the need for fuses in agriculture, it is not clear whether this provision would be maintained later. we cannot risk the future of a sector that is already going through such difficult times.
i welcome australia and new zealand's strong and continued commitment to the multilateral trade agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the registering of pet animals across the eu member states. not only because illegal trade of animals poses serious risks to public health, or because it is a significant source of revenue for the mafia, but mostly because of the wellbeing of these animals. for this same reason i voted in favour of amendment four. this amendment recognises that poor socialisation and habituation are among the leading factors in the behavioural problems of pets, such as separation issues or fear of everyday objects, and pose a long-term threat to animal welfare. i voted in favour of both parts of recital g as well, since this would be an important step towards compulsory identification and registration of dogs and cats in an appropriate database, which will be linked to an eu database. this recital allows traceability of the animals to help protect their health and welfare, public health and improve consumer protection. i sincerely care for these animals and i believe that this registration will help protect them and their wellbeing.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the fight against illegal trade in animals. the illegal trade often results in poor care and a higher risk of disease. as many as 70 percent of the new diseases that have infected humans in recent decades are of animal origin. the proposal aims to encourage eu countries to exchange data on the registration of dogs and cats. many eu countries already have mandatory systems for identifying and registering pet animals, but the information they collect varies. it is therefore essential to harmonise the databases for the registration of dogs and cats in all eu countries and eventually to include other pets. this will reduce the level of document fraud and illegal trade in animals, as well as allow the identification of the sources of animal disease outbreaks and a more effective response to animal abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament notes with concern the evidence provided by non-governmental organisations, law enforcement bodies, competent authorities and veterinary doctors that clearly shows the growing illegal exploitation of the pet travel system for commercial purposes. parliament also notes with concern the growing legal and illegal trade in wild animals, which are normally kept as pets. the keeping of wild animals as pet animals has a significant negative impact on the welfare of the animals concerned and poses a risk to human health and safety. this trade has a serious impact on the conservation of the species concerned, which are caught in the wild for commercial purposes. parliament therefore calls on the commission to adopt strict and effective measures to combat the illegal trade in pet animals, including wild animals kept as pets. parliament also calls on the commission to adopt a delegated act, as soon as the regulation on transmissible animal diseases (animal health act) enters into force, laying down rules on comprehensive and harmonised systems of means and methods for the identification and registration of dogs and cats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on joint motion for a resolution. a positive improvement was made to the pet travel scheme introduced by regulation (eu) no 576/2013, including the added security features contained in the pet passport, and the further improvements which will follow from the animal health law once adopted by the co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the differences in animal registration procedures in the member states do not help to solve the fundamental problems of animal protection. the illegal trade in animals is booming in europe. this not only harms the animals themselves but also puts them at risk of spreading diseases and viruses. a harmonised registration system would allow tracing the animal's origin, its true age, understanding where the disease could have come from and taking measures to control the situation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the saudi-led military intervention in yemen has created a catastrophic humanitarian situation that is affecting populations across the country, has serious consequences for the region and poses a threat to international peace and security. since the start of the conflict, at least 5 979 people have been killed, almost half of them civilians, and 28 208 injured. i agree with the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the un and i support calls for all parties to contribute to yemen's humanitarian needs. all countries must allow the entry and supply of urgently needed food, medicine and other necessary aid. i support calls for the eu to promote effective compliance with international humanitarian law. saudi arabia and iran must work together to resolve this crisis, act pragmatically and in good faith, and end the fighting in yemen.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the violence in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis, which has affected millions of innocent men, women and children. it also deeply regrets the loss of life and the suffering caused by the conflict. parliament also deeply regrets the deaths of civilians and humanitarian workers in yemen and the apparent indiscriminate attacks on civilian infrastructure, including schools and hospitals. the european parliament therefore calls on all parties to respect the human rights and freedoms of all yemeni citizens and of all those who pursue peace and carry out humanitarian missions in the country, including workers, doctors and journalists. it also calls for an independent investigation into all allegations of ill-treatment of civilians, torture and targeted killings, and other violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of joint motion for a resolution. my deepest concern is at the ability of al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula and isis to benefit from the deterioration of the political and security situation in yemen. the humanitarian situation in yemen sees around 21 million yemenis in urgent need of humanitarian aid. therefore, all the parties should ensure safe, rapid and unhindered access for humanitarian aid delivery to all affected governorates, in particular taiz.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. i believe that only a political and negotiated solution to the conflict can restore peace and preserve yemen's unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. i support the provisions of the resolution which urge saudi arabia and iran to cease fighting in yemen and the international community to provide humanitarian aid and address the immediate needs of the civilian population affected by the crisis.
in writing. i call on all parties to respect the human rights and freedoms of all yemeni citizens and all those engaged in peace-building and humanitarian missions in the country, including workers, doctors and journalists.
for the verts/ale group mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr marc tarabella (rapporteur) for his excellent work. i was the shadow rapporteur for the greens when i was preparing this report, and i have to say that although our views were not exactly in line with the rapporteur's at the beginning, we did manage to produce a really good document. what good is this document and does it deserve the european parliament's unconditional support? first, it sets out objectives for the development of good eating habits in pupils and guidelines for the good management of the programme. the new regulation has succeeded in extending the list of products for the purpose of developing healthy eating habits in schools. sometimes too much. i still can't figure out how you're going to eat olive oil or what healthy eating habits you're going to form by drinking chocolate milk. but let's leave it to the individual member states. more importantly, we have, perhaps for the first time, succeeded in putting in place a european union law that flavour enhancers such as monosodium glutamate are wrong. we have managed to foresee that european union funds will not be used to finance food products with these unhealthy additives. it is hard to believe, but it does not seem that such a ban has ever existed. we have also managed to improve the overall management of the support programme. the new document clarifies the criteria for allocating funds to the member states. member states will be able to use the support more flexibly. we have also successfully incorporated provisions to promote short supply chains. in addition to the crucial aspect of good governance, it provides for greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of programme design and implementation. this is very important because it is the local authorities that are usually better informed than the central authorities about the specific needs of the local population.
in writing.– i believe children will gain a better understanding of healthy nutrition and form healthy eating habits by implementation of this programme. people consume too little fruit and vegetables in the overwhelming majority of the member states and child obesity is a weighty problem. therefore, children need education on nutrition to reverse this trend. moreover, this aid scheme will benefit farmers in the european union. thus, i believe this scheme will benefit many, if not all, parties involved. at the very least, children will enjoy a healthy snack every week.
for the verts/ale group mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your work in this area and to thank the rapporteur for a well-written report. although the draft legislation in question is only a regulatory framework document, it duly reflects the main issues of animal health and disease prevention. we support the aims it sets to protect animals not only from disease but also from stress and pain. we support the system of categorisation of animal diseases and the professional knowledge requirements for animal breeders that it establishes. at the same time, i would urge my colleague to draw attention to the structural circumstances which can make even the best animal welfare efforts more effective. i'm talking about catastrophically low and continuing declines in livestock farmers' incomes, such as the declining incomes of dairy farmers and pig farmers, which are not allowing farmers to invest the necessary funds in the health and nutrition of their cattle. i have information that dairy cows in at least a few member states have been fed with poor quality feed for two years. this means that farmers simply cannot afford the necessary supplements, vitamins and medicines, and this, for economic reasons, creates the conditions for the spread of animal diseases. i would therefore urge my colleague to vote in favour of this report. at the same time, please remember that we cannot achieve animal health in the european union without addressing the economic reasons which prevent farmers from obtaining the necessary animal health products.
i was rapporteur for the 2010 report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, but since then fraud and irregularities have not decreased but increased, costing the european union over eur 3 billion in 2014. however, to date only a small proportion of the irregular payments has been recovered from the member states. as i have said on many occasions, the main problem remains that member states, when they receive large sums of money from the european union, are not obliged to provide detailed and comparable data on their use. it is therefore necessary for the commission to harmonise the principles for reporting fraud cases and to establish a clear reporting framework to enable member states to assess the implementation of the recommendations of olaf investigations and the penalties for non-compliance. this situation cannot be tolerated and the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of european union funds unlawfully paid.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, commissioner, i thank you from the bottom of my heart for giving a comprehensive presentation today on the social and economic situation of women in europe. it is indeed symbolic that it is precisely on 8 march that we are here in plenary to discuss the situation of women and gender equality in our community. on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate the commission on its decision to propose that the european union join the istanbul convention as a transnational organisation. it would only be the second united nations convention to which the european union would be a party, but it is really a great wish, and i wish it to myself, to all my colleagues and to the commission, that laws and decisions which are favourable to both women and men would be remembered and adopted in the european union on more than this day. and indeed, we can and must do much more for women and their social and economic status in europe. first, we need to create and ensure that women are able to better balance work and life. let us admit that even in 21st century europe, this responsibility is largely the responsibility of women. what can we do to ensure that women with families do not have to sacrifice work and personal professional development, so that working mothers finally have time for themselves and their health? we need to legislate for maternity, paternity and parental leave. finally, we need to adopt legislation to allow for the taking of nursing leave to care for family members disabled or elderly family members without losing your job. finally, we need to invest in achieving the barcelona goals, so that our children have access to education and training (i'm talking about the availability of crèches, the availability of places in kindergartens). finally, we need to work with the social partners to find innovative solutions that allow working people to balance work and family responsibilities. we expect the honourable commission to speed up the work-life balance package.
for the efdd group mr president, colleagues, commissioner f. grandi, it is very good that you are here. maybe we in europe will finally be able to put all the dots on certain letters. perhaps we will finally understand that it is the duty of european states to help refugees, not to open their cities to all migrants. european society is now eating the rotten fruit of the recklessness of its politicians. and in the future, they will only be more so if we are involved in discussions or debates again. and there's really no point in arguing about the obvious. yes, aid and humanitarian support for war refugees and people fleeing political persecution in their homelands, and a firm hand to those flocking to europe in search of a better life. well, commissioner, you don't have to provide accommodations and you probably wouldn't have guests in your home that you didn't invite. why should citizens of european countries behave differently? so let's stop arguing and start acting to protect europe from migrants, not to seek asylum for them, to protect the external borders of the european union, not to buy billions in turkish favors, to ensure the security of the citizens of the community countries. and it's not the separation of refugees into individual countries that is the top priority of the united nations and the european union. today, the causes of war and conflict must be removed. yes, there is a need to help those who are affected by a fire, but without that help, there is a need to make a real effort to keep the fire from starting and spreading. and, you know, it seems surreal now that for years and years we've been watching villages burn in one country or another, and when they burn, we look for ways and means to help the alleged burners, even though there are many more of them who don't smell fire or smoke.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a common healthcare approach will be much more effective than two separate policies for animal welfare and human health. these two fields are closely interconnected – as can be seen from diseases such as mad cow disease, bird flu and swine fever. moreover, antibiotic resistance is a serious problem at present. resistance to existing antibiotics has increased by 67% per generation, but no new types of antibiotics are being produced. measures, such as this piece of legislation, must be taken to prevent such important medication from losing its effectiveness. additionally, i am pleased with the simplification of eu animal welfare policy introduced by this legislation. furthermore, this legislation will benefit animals: a matter close to my heart. inadequate care will no longer be covered up by the use of copious amounts of antibiotics.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce new animal health rules to strengthen the fight against animal diseases such as avian influenza and african swine fever. the animal health rules combine and update almost 40 existing pieces of legislation in this area and, for the first time in history, establish the interdependence between animal and public health. it introduces mandatory registration of those involved in the trade, a clearer distribution of responsibilities between farmers, traders and veterinarians, and a greater focus on prevention. it also clarifies the role of farmers, traders, veterinarians and animal owners in the fight against the spread of diseases. i agree that the european commission should be given the power to react immediately to outbreaks of animal diseases that may have a significant impact on public health or agricultural production. it is also important to provide for the mandatory registration of persons involved in the trade in animals and to establish national databases on dogs, cats and other pets.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on communicable animal diseases. the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council 'an action plan to combat antimicrobial resistance threats' highlights the preventive importance of the regulation on infectious animal diseases (animal health act) and the likely reduction of antibiotic use in animal treatment. in addition to the requirements of this regulation, member states are encouraged to commit to collecting relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the use of antimicrobials in animal treatment and to transmit those data to the commission in order to ensure a more prudent use of antimicrobials in animal treatment and thus contribute to the reduction of the risk of antimicrobial resistance. this regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which may infect animals or humans, but does not contain any provisions specifically governing animal welfare, although animal health and welfare are linked. the union has a well-developed animal welfare acquis covering a wide range of animal species (broilers, laying hens, pigs and calves) and activities (breeding, slaughter, transport, research, etc.). these animal welfare laws will necessarily continue to apply. the commission is firmly committed to taking full account of animal welfare in accordance with article 13 of the treaty and within the limits set out therein, and to fully implementing and developing legislation in this field.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the council position and have voted against the proposal to reject it because this legislation is very important for animal welfare and because it will help do things such as reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance. it will also help limit the possibility of the spread of some transmissible diseases from animals to humans.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this proposal because i believe that the new rules adopted will help to combat the threat of animal diseases such as avian influenza or african swine fever. the rules provide for mandatory registration of persons involved in the trade in animals, a clearer distribution of responsibilities between farmers, traders and veterinarians.
in writing. ‒ the i support the draft regulation submitted. the new animal health rules will ensure animal health and welfare, public health protection, environmental protection and the interdependence of animal and public health. it should be noted that the emergence and spread of infectious diseases has negative effects not only on the economy but also on society. in this context, it is essential to minimise the risk of possible communicable diseases throughout the eu. therefore, effective control measures and prevention systems for those diseases should be established and high animal and public health standards applied. however, the new regulation should not create an additional bureaucratic burden but, on the contrary, should promote competitiveness. a consolidated legal framework for the union's common animal health policy is to apply in the eu, establishing a single simplified and flexible animal health regulatory framework.
this regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which may infect animals or humans, but does not contain any provisions specifically governing animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce new animal health rules to strengthen the fight against animal diseases such as avian influenza and african swine fever. the animal health rules combine and update almost 40 existing pieces of legislation in this area and, for the first time in history, establish the interdependence between animal and public health. it introduces mandatory registration of those involved in the trade, a clearer distribution of responsibilities between farmers, traders and veterinarians, and a greater focus on prevention. it also clarifies the role of farmers, traders, veterinarians and animal owners in the fight against the spread of diseases. i agree that the european commission should be given the power to react immediately to outbreaks of animal diseases that may have a significant impact on public health or agricultural production. it is also important to provide for the mandatory registration of persons involved in the trade in animals and to establish national databases on dogs, cats and other pets.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a programme of aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. based on the experience of the current programmes, the findings of the external evaluations, the subsequent analysis of the various possible policy measures, and the social difficulties faced by the member states, it has been concluded that it is of the utmost importance to continue and strengthen the school fruit and vegetables, banana and milk programmes. in the current context of decreasing consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products (especially by children) and consumption habits (consumption of highly processed foods, which are also often high in sugar, salt, fat or additives), the number of obese children is increasing. european union aid for the supply of selected agricultural products to children in educational establishments should contribute more to promoting healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of this regulation, because it will promote healthy eating habits in schools, which is of tremendous importance for europe’s youth. this will also make distribution easier and relieve the burden on schools themselves, who might not have the best resources to provide fresh local produce. additionally, the addition of milk products to the proposal will be of great service to children who have problems with milk. these products can also provide children with necessary calcium.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supports the continuation of eu programmes to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools in eu member states. these programmes will therefore continue to contribute to the promotion of healthier eating habits among children. up to eur 250 million of eu funds may be allocated to this purpose during the academic year. it is important to use these funds in a targeted and efficient manner, ensuring a particularly high quality of the products in question for children, with priority given to local production and small suppliers and growers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament and council regulation on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. the programme is important because it helps to introduce healthy eating and living habits to children and encourages the consumption of local products.
in writing. ‒ the i accept the offer. the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk is compatible with public health objectives. it is very beneficial to children's health and helps to form healthy eating habits. it is therefore essential that the eu should have a common legal and financial framework to simplify the existing system and reduce administrative and organisational burdens. it is worth noting that the programme will allow children to include more natural vegetables and dairy products in their diets, while promoting healthy eating. the new rules will combine the two programmes, which are currently separated, and extend their application to additional educational measures that will provide children with opportunities to deepen their knowledge of agriculture and its products. however, in order to ensure the effective implementation of the programme, it is necessary to improve the evaluation systems and to apply a common evaluation and annual monitoring methodology.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr tarabella, member of the european parliament, for two reasons. this report proposes solutions to contribute to the programme concerning aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables to educational establishments. this is important because there has been a recent decrease in the use of these products among children. and this is directly related to the health of the youth. our actions should contribute more to the promotion of healthy eating habits among children and adolescents. it is also important that the strengthening of that programme will directly contribute to the recovery of the agricultural sector, as the demand for the agricultural products referred to in the notification will increase. it is very good that the proposed programme is addressed to all member states. it is important to specifically help new member states, such as lithuania, where healthy food production, which is the country's speciality, can be increased, and this will strengthen the programme for healthy food in educational establishments.
in writing. additional educational measures to support the distribution of products are needed to effectively implement the short and long-term objectives of the programme to increase the consumption of selected agricultural products and to develop healthier eating habits.
in writing. ‒ i voted to defer the consideration of this proposal and to return it to the commission for further development. the current situation of different port and port services organisation systems, with many disagreements and uncertainties, requires that the commission proposal be re-examined and a compromise found.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports. the commission's proposal aims to help make the ten-t network more efficient, better connected and more coherent by creating a system that improves the efficiency of all ports and enables them to adapt more easily to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the renewal of port services and activities and the creation of conditions that encourage investment in ports. the commission aims to eliminate the weak competition conditions and possible market abuse cases and thus increase the efficiency of the port services provided. a clear system of state aid rules is an important criterion for fair competition between ports on equal terms. the commission is currently reviewing the scope of the block exemption regulation with a view to including criteria for port infrastructure by december 2015. this proposal is in line with other important eu policies and objectives, such as the white paper on transport, the european infrastructure networks instrument and the blue belt initiative.
in writing. ‒ i support the allowance of market access to port services, as well as the financial transparency of ports, and am in favour of parliament beginning negotiations with the council and the commission directly. this is because allowing this market access will connect ports to the trans-european network, encourage innovation and modernisation of port services, promote social dialogue and the environmental profile of ports, as well as increasing investment in them.
in writing. ‒ the it should be noted that the new regulation may have negative consequences for many ports. there are doubts whether the new regulation will be an effective tool to replace the system that has been working so well. it is also concerned with the effectiveness of its legal regulation in ensuring the efficient provision of port services and in stimulating investment. in particular, the envisaged scope covers services for which the member states have exclusive competence to regulate. the new additional requirements may restrict competition on the ten-t network and reduce security in ports. in addition, they may partially restrict the autonomy of port managers and port service providers, unduly increasing the administrative and financial burden. it is therefore necessary to properly assess the potential impact of the new regulation and to lay down legal rules that will help to ensure stable and fair conditions of competition between eu ports. this would create a targeted, balanced and sustainable development of the eu seaports sector.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this communication on market access for port services and the financial transparency framework for ports. the document will ensure the efficient and coherent operation of the ten-t network and, as a result, improve the efficiency of all ports. i appreciate the commission's efforts to eliminate distortive conditions and possible abuses in the market for port services. in addition, a clear framework of state aid rules is envisaged to ensure fair competition between ports.
in writing. a clear system of state aid rules is an important criterion for fair competition between ports on equal terms. this regulation will apply to all seaports referred to in the ten-t guidelines and, according to the commission, will help to remove the additional administrative burden faced by ports already performing well, while at the same time helping other ports to meet their structural challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to harmonise the consumer price indices. this proposal establishes a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house price indices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national levels. the hicp is a measure of inflation, used as a valuable input for the inflation-adjusted economic value (e.g. wages, rents, interest rates) and therefore a basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore necessary that those statistics are objective, impartial and comparable for all member states and for all product categories. the current regulation on the hicp was established in 1995, but new developments in consumer price statistics make it necessary to revise the existing rules in order to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of the hicp.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices. the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house price indices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national levels. hicp a measure of inflation used, inter alia, as a valuable input for the conversion of economic value (e.g. wages, rents, interest rates) to inflation and therefore as a basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore essential that those statistics are objective, impartial and comparable for all member states and for all product categories. the current regulation on the ccctb was drawn up in 1995. new developments in consumer price statistics require a review of the existing standards in order to ensure the greatest possible comparability for the main users of the cpi. the regulation also takes into account the innovation in eu decision-making introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which empowers the commission (eurostat) to adopt implementing measures (implementing acts) or legislative measures (delegated acts) to amend non-essential elements of the regulations. for this reason, the commission proposal should set out a number of actions to be taken by means of delegated acts, for example by establishing a methodology suitable for the establishment of harmonised indices for comparison between countries or by updating the weights of the sub-indices of the hicp.
in writing. ‒ i support these revisions because having one uniform measure for calculating inflation will provide member states with greater clarity and make administration of our economy easier and more effective. this could be a very important step towards our goal of achieving price stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to harmonise the consumer price indices. i think it is very important that these statistics are objective, unbiased and comparable across all member states and across all product categories, because it is on the basis of these data that economists, politicians, analysts make decisions about monetary and economic policy.
in writing. ‒ the i support the draft report submitted. the harmonised index of consumer prices is a very important tool for ensuring price stability in the member states and for monitoring inflation. these are important indicators in the context of monetary policy. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that those statistics are objective, impartial and comparable for all member states and for all product categories. therefore, a single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices and of house price indices at union, national and sub-national levels should apply throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a harmonised index of consumer prices. it establishes a single system of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house price indices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national levels. these indices are a measure of inflation, allowing the economic value of wages, rent, interest rates, etc. to be recalculated. the proposal updates a regulation adopted in 1995. changes in price statistics have long called for a revision of the existing standards to ensure objective comparability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the regulation touches on an important issue relating to the single legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices and house price indices at union and national level. in this context, the commission should ensure that those delegated acts do not impose a higher additional burden on member states. it is essential that the statistics referred to in the regulation are objective and comparable for all member states and for all product categories. this is why new statistical trends require new legal rules.
in writing. ‒ fraud receives much public attention and severely damages the reputation of the european union. therefore, we need decent financial management to prevent irregular and illegal expenditure and irregularities relating to revenue. the commission and the member states should work closely together and fight irregularities and corruption. moreover, i support the ideas from the committee on budgetary control (cont) to develop a system of indicators to measure the level of corruption in the member states, to amend the eu staff regulations in order to enhance the protection of whistle-blowers and to improve transparency in the lobbying sector. it could play a positive role in increasing the trustworthiness and public image of the european union institutions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. i was rapporteur for the 2010 report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, so i am familiar with the issue. however, since then, fraud and irregularities have increased, costing the eu more than €3 billion in 2014. however, to date only a small proportion of the irregular payments has been recovered from the member states. as i have mentioned on many occasions, the main problem remains that member states are not obliged to provide detailed and comparable data on the use of the eu's large amounts of funding. it is therefore necessary for the commission to harmonise the principles for reporting fraud cases and to establish a clear reporting framework to enable member states to assess the implementation of the recommendations of olaf investigations and the penalties for non-compliance. this situation must not be tolerated and i reiterate my call on the commission to take full responsibility for the recovery of eu funds illegally paid.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which presents the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. fighting fraud. in this report, the european parliament stresses that infringements that are not considered fraudulent are often linked to a lack of knowledge of complex rules and requirements. it considers that the simplification of rules and procedures by the member states and the commission would reduce the number of such infringements. in addition, in order to combat irregularities, including fraud, it is necessary to ensure that all institutional bodies at european, national, regional and local levels and the general public are informed. the creation of a culture of fraud prevention and combating is of paramount importance in all institutions and bodies involved in the use of the funds, and member states are therefore encouraged to promote the exchange of good practice. the european parliament reiterates its call on the commission to establish a system for the exchange of information between competent authorities, which would allow for the cross-checking of accounting records between two or more member states, in order to prevent cross-border fraud involving structural and investment funds and thus ensure a horizontal approach to the protection of the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this very comprehensive report because i believe that it will lead to a strengthening of the legal framework, reinforcement of the fight against fraud, and better harmonisation of criminal law. it is very important that everyone be held accountable when important financial interests are at stake, so it is important that we use the best systems to check if there is any fraud taking place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. fighting fraud. the resolution highlights the problems caused by various cases of fraud and irregularities, which cost the eu budget more than eur 3 billion in 2014. i support the measures proposed in the report to strengthen controls on the use of eu funds, to make the requirements of eu directives more responsible in the area of public procurement, and to improve coordination between olaf, customs and market surveillance authorities in the fight against tobacco smuggling and counterfeit trade.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. in order to improve the protection of the financial interests of the union, it is necessary to take decisive action with a view to deterring the introduction of a general and proportionate level of protection and preventing irregularities and fraud. the eu must strictly adhere to the principles of sound financial management: transparency and accountability. there should also be an improved mechanism for reporting and monitoring breaches. the eu must have a comprehensive and consistent enforcement system. moreover, greater attention should be paid to ensuring full transparency in relation to the financing of large infrastructure projects. i believe that the commission should develop a system of rigorous indicators and easily adaptable uniform criteria, based on the requirements set out in the stockholm programme, and establish a corruption index. it is important to note that the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud transcend european borders and that further international cooperation is therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ the i fully support the report by mr benedetto on the protection of the european union's financial interests. fighting fraud. the fight against fraud and the misuse of eu funds must be a priority for all eu institutions and member states. he rightly emphasises that the current definition of fraud necessarily includes cases of lack of knowledge of complex rules and requirements. i agree that if the member states and the eu simplified the rules, the number of what is now sometimes unjustifiably classified as infringements would also be reduced.
i welcome the commission's commitment to publishing the eu anti-corruption report twice a year and look forward to receiving the next report in early 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of angelika mlinar’s report on gender mainstreaming. it is astounding that gender inequality still remains an issue in 2016. gender mainstreaming is a tool to effectively address this problem and empower more women by fairly including them in decision making processes. thus, we need to incorporate gender mainstreaming in the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies at the european parliament. analysis shows that our system regarding gender equality is still fragmented and inefficient – i believe that european parliament has the obligation to set a good example in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the integration of the gender dimension into the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming means integrating the gender perspective into the formulation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes in order to promote equality between women and men and to combat discrimination. in 2009, a network of meps responsible for gender mainstreaming in ep committees and an additional network at staff level were established. the members of this network shall hold regular meetings and exchange information on documents held by the members of the network and share best practices. the european parliament has gradually established a structure for gender mainstreaming. the evaluation of the work of each individual institution is positive, but the overall picture is not uniform. i support the proposals to strengthen the current structure of gender mainstreaming and to make it more effective and efficient, including through the creation of a strong interinstitutional network. it is also important to promote closer cooperation with national parliaments and to exchange views on a regular basis in order to further develop best practices in order to make progress on gender mainstreaming.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the way in which the gender dimension is integrated into the work of the european parliament, and the documents adopted. gender mainstreaming has been adopted internationally as a strategy for achieving gender equality. in practice, gender mainstreaming means integrating the gender perspective into the design, development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes in order to promote equality between women and men and to combat discrimination. gender mainstreaming has a twofold dimension: it requires both the integration of gender into different policy areas and the resolution of the issue of the representation of women and men in a given policy area. both gender representation and gender-based content should be taken into account at all stages of policy-making. while numbers are important, it is also important to consider how the gender dimension relates to the content of policy instruments in order to better understand how women and men can better benefit from them. a gender-based policy ensures that the needs of all citizens - women and men - are equally met. however, structural gender inequalities remain entrenched in our society. even if women and men are treated equally in law, women still do not have equal access to and control over resources and assets. the current situation therefore shows that gender-based policy content is an essential part of a proper gender equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ i support the promotion of gender mainstreaming in the eu, because achieving gender equality is central to the protection of human rights, the functioning of democracy, respect for the rule of law, and economic growth, social inclusion and sustainability. unfortunately, we have not made as much progress on this front as we should have, and that needs to change. there should be more gender equality regarding decision-making positions and committee influence, and gender equality should be emphasised in all policies that the eu adopts.
in writing. ‒ the i believe that we need to promote equal participation of men and women in political, professional and family life. first, there is a need to ensure a proper work-life balance. it is necessary to prevent any discrimination and to remove all obstacles which create inequalities between women and men. eu policy must be designed and implemented in a way that benefits everyone equally. furthermore, no new measures need to be introduced until existing gender mainstreaming measures have been properly implemented. i do not think it is appropriate to establish a permanent rapporteur on gender mainstreaming and to legalise the use of gender neutral language. there are also doubts about the usefulness and possible financial costs of regular training in the field of gender mainstreaming.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to integrate the gender dimension into the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming has a double benefit: it not only ensures equal opportunities but also provides an example of good practice for other institutions and member states. i would like to emphasise that, although the participation statistics are the same, it would not always be a bad idea to focus on the gender dimension in the content of policy measures, to make the most of the opportunities it provides, while not overstepping the bounds of the equality criteria.
in writing. i believe that stronger interinstitutional relations will improve the gender balance in eu policy-making; i recommend that the european ombudsman provide data on complaints of maladministration to the parliament's high level group on gender equality and diversity once a year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mary honeyball’s report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. unfortunately, we are not close to resolving the migrant crisis, nor will the recent agreement with turkey be a lasting solution. in the meanwhile, there has been a concerning development in the migrant crisis: the majority of those fleeing to europe are now women and children. they are particularly vulnerable. children are disappearing by the thousands and women face discrimination, violence and are sexually harassed. moreover, women are being coerced into sexual acts or they have to resort to prostitution to pay for their travels. childcare is another issue to consider. furthermore, integration might be more difficult for women. some did not have access to a proper education and have little or no experience on the labour market. thus, i support this resolution, because it reflects those additional problems and underlines that women need safer alternatives.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to ensure the safety of women refugees. as of january 2016, women and children accounted for 55% of those who came to greece seeking asylum in the eu. the reform of eu migration and asylum policy aims to provide for measures to help protect women and children seeking refugee status. the draft resolution stresses that various forms of violence and discrimination on grounds of sex, including rape, sexual violence or forced marriage, constitute persecution and should therefore be recognised as an appropriate basis for seeking asylum in the eu. i support the specific measures outlined which could help to alleviate the situation of women seeking asylum: separate sleeping accommodation for women; translation, counselling and childcare services; and training for reception centre staff on sexual violence or trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. in 2014, women and girls accounted for half of the world's refugees. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum. asylum systems have been viewed from a predominantly male perspective. despite the creation of the common european asylum system (ceas), member states' laws, policies and practices remain highly divergent and there are clear gaps in the protection of women seeking asylum in the eu. it is difficult to generate accurate statistical data on the demographic diversity of refugees trying to reach europe because of their nature. however, all the modern scientific research indicates that more single men than women and children come to the eu to seek international protection. this is mainly due to the gender-related barriers to protection that women face throughout their journey. the traditional unequal distribution of work means that women are often left behind to care for children and older family members. most of them lack, in particular, the financial and administrative independence to leave their own country. the growing number of women refugees is vulnerable at all stages of the journey: in their countries of origin, transit and arrival. gender-based violence, which is the most common reason for women to decide to flee, is a common feature of all eu travel and of the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of giving stronger support to women refugees, because the rise of far-right populism and extremism in europe puts women refugees and asylum seekers at further risk of racist abuse, discrimination and violence. member states have an obligation to promote safe and welcoming environments for those seeking international protection and to combat all forms of discrimination. additionally, legal and safe routes into the eu must be made available for those fleeing conflict and persecution, and legislation and policies relating to irregular migration should never prevent access to eu asylum procedures, because the right to asylum is enshrined in article 18 of the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the it is important to note that there is a clear link between the current migration crisis and the increase in trafficking and human trafficking. in order to save lives and increase the reliability of legal routes to the eu, it is essential to prevent irregular migration and to develop safe and secure migration routes to europe as a matter of urgency. particular attention should be paid to strengthening control of the eu's external borders and improving the management of migration flows. all responses to the migration crisis should be global in scope, taking into account the particular situation of women and girls as refugees and asylum seekers. a common eu list of safe countries of origin should be established. in addition, an integrated approach to legal humanitarian migration and a strengthened asylum regime should be adopted, which takes due account of the special needs of women and girls.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in the middle east does not allow us to say that we will be able to successfully resolve the refugee crisis in the near future. so far, all we can do is help alleviate the plight of refugees from this region. the report by mrs mary honeyball on the situation of women refugees is a valuable document defining where and how the eu can work on the latter issue. and for that, he deserves our full support. at the same time, i want to stress that the eu is not a charity for the whole world, and that we need to focus more on what needs to be done to stop the flow of refugees, namely to resolve the conflict in syria and other bloody conflicts.
stress that most women asylum seekers and refugees have experienced brutal violence and that their detention can exacerbate the trauma; stresses that the detention of asylum seekers for purely administrative convenience violates the right to liberty enshrined in article 6 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. i call on member states to put in place and strengthen control mechanisms in overcrowded refugee reception centres in the union, which do not always meet the minimum standards to reduce gender-based violence, in order to prevent violence against women and children in the country of arrival.
mr president, five years of our confusion and inaction have led us to where we are now: a situation where a sort of ceasefire – on whatever conditions – is in place. frankly, to me the situation looks like a syrian puzzle being made by putin’s hands. he is the one acting on both sides by not stopping russian citizens joining isis and then coming to back assad; who bombs opposition, civilians and hospitals; who intentionally pushes massive flows of refugees; who feeds radical parties inside the eu; who creates fake propaganda stories. let us be frank, moscow has given the west a very good lesson as regards our claims that there is no military solution in syria, as completely the opposite has been proven so far. clearly, any ceasefire is better than a war. the question remains: what is the price for it and at whose expense?
in writing. this proposal for a directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is a very important piece of legislation that will regulate the rules across the european union on the rights of children involved in criminal proceedings. despite the abundance of international legal instruments in this area, there is no definition of what constitutes a fair trial for a child and courts must therefore act on the basis of partial and fragmentary law. the european commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year - 12% of all those involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. in addition to the large number of cases, there are also major differences in the treatment of children facing criminal proceedings in the member states. studies at european level show that the rights of children are currently not sufficiently guaranteed at all stages of the criminal proceedings within the union and that the european court of human rights has on many occasions delivered judgments to the detriment of the member states. furthermore, this proposal for a directive is part of the eu's agenda on the rights of the child and aims to promote the rights of the child in the light of other measures, in particular the guidelines of the committee of ministers of the council of europe on child-friendly justice, bearing in mind that such measures do not have the binding force of eu law and therefore the guarantees provided for in them do not apply fully and uniformly in the member states.
in writing. today's debate touches on a very important human rights issue, which is related to the legal protection of children. their problems cannot be left to them alone, institutional solutions must be found at union level to formally harmonise the legal approach in all member states. this is an important topic, as the european commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year. the large disparities in the treatment of children facing criminal proceedings in the member states are a cause for concern, demonstrating the inadequacy of the legal protection of minors in the eu. in the case of a crime involving children, children must be placed under legal aid and guardianship immediately after their arrest. all information provided to them should be provided in a manner appropriate to their age and maturity. and, most importantly, a language that they understand, regardless of their nationality or place of residence, without any discrimination on the basis of language. member states must ensure that children are treated with care and diligence in all cases. criminal proceedings involving children should be heard in their absence and, whenever possible, with the knowledge and participation of their parents. it should be borne in mind that the proposed provisions should complement the directive on the rights of the child, as the fair trial of a child has not yet been defined. this is why this problem is of particular importance.
many seem to be celebrating the agreement with turkey on monday. i find that joy rather strange. i'm trying to understand, is this a six billion euro visa-free regime that turkey has bought with the european union, or is it already a member? does this mean that turkey will become a member of the european union with its problems and with the returning migrants? does this mean that a significant proportion of the 75 million turks will move to the european union and stay there? or are we, by giving in to this blackmail, hoping that turkey will solve the problems that we must solve ourselves? democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with road-scouting and road-fighting. respect for human rights is first and foremost respect for the rights and freedoms of the citizens of one's own country, and for the values and traditions that have been nurtured over the centuries. the prohibitions on decorating the christmas tree or eating pork sausages, the suppression of information about immigrant crime and the media silence about their actions what is the purpose of such things? is this european democracy, if it can still be called that? or is it simply a carpet being pulled under the feet of the world's powerful to seal agreements that no one is following? (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. i believe that the european union should move from words to deeds, and i would mention only two points that is, to protect the external borders and to make every effort to ensure that the sources of conflict, the wars over the european union, are reduced or eliminated. the world has good examples -- australia has the example of how australia has dealt with the flows of migrants. let's take the highway, not reinvent the bike.
in writing. in considering whether the eu-turkey agreement will really help to turn uncontrolled migration into controlled one, i see too many challenges for now. since the start of the intensive eu-turkey negotiations, one of the main demands on turkey has been to stop the network of illegal migrant movements. but so far, we see no serious action from ankara in this regard: although the flow of migration across the aegean sea was lower at the beginning of the year than at the same time in 2015, a new wave of migrants is forecast as the weather warms up and up to 100,000 new arrivals are expected by the end of march. with the war raging in syria and russia dictating the terms and creating conflict on principle, the flow of refugees into turkey is not diminishing - there are already some 2.7 million refugees and migrants in turkey. perhaps this is what ankara sees as the reason for not closing the road to europe? the lack of a recipe for welcoming those already in europe today raises questions about the commitment to accepting one refugee for every illegal migrant returned to turkey. these are the new hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers. europe promises turkey a lot: visa-free travel, a huge financial injection, the opening of new chapters of negotiations on eu membership, even though the situation of civil rights and freedoms in turkey is deteriorating. but today, i doubt that ankara will pay the appropriate tribute, because so far it looks more like a clever move to use the migration crisis to push the frozen turkish integration with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, which is only intended to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels. in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, a consultative working group composed of representatives of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council. this proposal codifies council directive 1999/32/ec of 26 april 1999 relating to the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels and amending directive 93/12/eec. after considering this proposal, the consultative working party of the eu institutions decided by consensus that the proposal aims only at codifying the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i support this revision because it is simply a codification of the text of the original proposal, meaning it does not have any effect on the substance of the law (which i support) itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the ep and council directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels. the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. - i voted for this document. improving fuel quality, at least until we have sufficiently widespread or developed sufficiently powerful fuel-efficient alternatives, such as solar energy an important means of cleaning up the environment. at the same time, i urge the commission to remember that nature knows no borders and that environmental quality must be pursued not only in the eu but also in the rest of the planet. i therefore call for these fuel quality issues to be included in the eu's agenda for relations with the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the referral of trade in certain essential medicines to the european union, which aims only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a system to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicines to the european union. in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, a consultative working group composed of representatives of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 10 july 2014 to examine, inter alia, the above-mentioned proposal submitted by the commission. after considering the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 establishing a framework for the prevention of the diversion of certain essential medicinal products from the market into the european union, the advisory working party agreed by consensus that the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal because putting these key medicines in the hands of europe’s most efficient exporters will be of great help to european citizens who are experiencing health problems and need these medicines to improve. because of this, trade diversion should absolutely be avoided in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, which aims only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a system to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicines to the european union. it is not highly controversial, but it codifies a list of medicines whose entry into the eu is restricted. i am confident that it will contribute to a more transparent eu pharmaceutical market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the eu and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 12 february 2016 with a view to enhancing international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the eu and andorra shall exchange information on the settlement of accounts with the eu and andorra as of 1 january 2017 and shall exchange it with each other on a regular basis. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra. the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information with a view to enhancing international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation on 12 february 2016. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and it revises the 2004 agreement which ensured that andorra applied measures equivalent to those of the eu savings directive on taxation of income. the eu and andorra shall exchange information on the settlement of accounts with the eu and andorra as of 1 january 2017 and shall exchange it with each other on a regular basis. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i support these measures because tax fraud and tax evasion are serious problems, and giving these stronger powers to tax administrations in both andorra and the eu member states will strengthen our ability to fight these crimes. it will be of mutual benefit to all of us.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is important in ensuring cooperation in the fight against fraud, tax evasion and income avoidance. under the agreement, information on financial accounts will be exchanged automatically between andorra and the eu in accordance with international standards. the agreement should enter into force as from 2017, once the procedures for its conclusion and ratification have been completed in time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for an eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. this agreement is important in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the eu and andorra shall exchange information on the financial accounts held by eu and andorran residents in their territories in accordance with the new agreement as from 2018. this is intended to respond to cases where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which no tax has been paid.
in writing. ‒ the i give my consent to the conclusion of an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information between the eu and the principality of andorra. this agreement will enhance the bilateral cooperation between the parties in the light of the high and rigorous eu standards and ensure their proper observance. tax administrations will be better able to identify the taxpayers concerned with accuracy and clarity and to administer and enforce their tax legislation more easily in cross-border cases. the implementation of the mechanism provided for in the agreement will also allow for the swifter detection of cases of illegal tax evasion and the proper implementation of preventive measures.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement with andorra as an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement is not new it is essentially a revision of the 2004 analogue document, which will help ensure that andorra applies measures equivalent to those of the eu's current savings income tax directive. the new eu-andorra agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information collected as of 1 january 2017 on financial accounts held by eu and andorran residents in their territories. this will help to avoid taxpayers' attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which no tax has been paid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of appointing mr fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this communication on the proposal for the appointment of an executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the appointment of a new director is necessary as the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa expires on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, following an open selection procedure, the supervisory board of eiopa proposed appointing mr faust parent as executive director for a term of five years. on 23 february 2016, the economic and monetary committee held a hearing with mr fausto parente, during which he made an introductory speech and answered questions from members of the committee. the european parliament endorses the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i support the appointment of fausto parente to this position. mr parente has had a long and illustrious career in this field, and i think he will do an excellent job as executive director.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to appoint faust parente as the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for a five-year term. i note that the candidate performed well in the hearing of the ep committee on economic and monetary affairs on 23 february 2016, following which the committee also endorsed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish an adequately structured catalogue of the rights of children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings, providing for a structured set of minimum and interrelated standards adapted to the specific needs of children at all stages of the process. this proposal for a directive aims to protect the rights of the child. according to the european commission, more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu every year - 12% of all those involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. the current situation in the union is characterised by a lack of adequate protection of children's rights at all stages of criminal proceedings. the right of the child to a fair hearing has not yet been defined, and courts must operate on the basis of partial and fragmentary law. at present, only six member states have prosecutors' offices specialising in children's cases, and nine member states do not even have specialised courts for children's cases. i agree with the suggestions that it is necessary to ensure the mandatory right to consult a lawyer, which is closely linked to the right to free legal aid, the right to individual assessment. mandatory specific training for judges, law enforcement and prison staff working with children must also be ensured.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. the stockholm programme stressed the importance of the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings. the need to ensure, through the application of common minimum standards, the effective exercise by persons under 18 years of age of a sufficiently uniform right to a fair trial at all stages of criminal proceedings is linked to the objective of facilitating the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in criminal matters and ensuring the smooth functioning of the european area of justice. the european commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year - 12% of all those involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. in addition, there are significant differences in the treatment of children facing criminal proceedings in the member states. this proposal for a directive is part of the eu's agenda on the rights of the child and aims to promote the rights of the child in the light of other measures, in particular the guidelines of the committee of ministers of the council of europe on child-friendly justice, bearing in mind that such measures do not have the binding force of union law and therefore the guarantees provided for therein do not apply fully and uniformly in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. there must be set minimum legal procedures on this matter. according to the commission’s estimates, more than 1 million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year. eu research shows that, at present, children’s rights are not being sufficiently protected at the various stages in criminal proceedings in the eu.
in writing. ‒ children are a particularly vulnerable part of society. children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings should be provided with the conditions to prevent the repetition of the offence and the possibility of reintegration into society. this decision establishes the minimum procedural rights and protection of such children. the aim is to establish the minimum standards necessary to enhance mutual trust and cooperation in criminal matters between eu member states.
in writing. ‒ according to the european commission, more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu every year. there are significant differences in the treatment of children facing criminal proceedings in the member states. it is clear from various sources that children's rights are not sufficiently protected at present, and i therefore support the proposals set out. i also believe that member states should provide specific training for judges, law enforcement and prison staff who work with children.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. all member states are obliged to respect human rights and to ensure their proper implementation. a common eu catalogue of the rights of children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings should be applied, adapted to the specific needs of children at all stages of the proceedings and ensuring a fair trial for the child. in particular, suspected or accused children should make full use of their right to understand and follow the proceedings and their right to a fair trial. i think it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to include young people who have reached the age of 18 but have not yet reached the age of 21 at the time of the offence committed before that age. it is also essential to ensure that the restriction of a child's liberty is only applied as a measure of last resort. the courts should, as far as possible, endeavour to impose this penalty only where it is unavoidable and provide specific and detailed reasons for that decision. in each case, respect for the human dignity and rights of the child in custody must be ensured, taking due account of the child's personality and the particular circumstances in which he or she committed the offence. particular attention shall be paid to the prevention of child crime and the promotion of social integration.
in writing. ‒ i consider this document to be very important and very well prepared. the provisions it contains on the rights of the child, legal aid, maintaining family relations, and the like, can only be accepted. the only thing that could be added is the provision that the prosecution of children must have the aim not only of punishing them but also of re-educating, socializing and beautifying them as full citizens. i have omitted that statement from this document.
the european commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year this represents 12% of all those involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. in addition to the large number of cases, there are also major differences in the treatment of children facing criminal proceedings in the member states. studies at european level show that the rights of children are currently not sufficiently guaranteed at all stages of the criminal proceedings within the union and that the european court of human rights has on many occasions delivered judgments to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the basis of the priorities for the 2017 budget, which remain strengthening economic growth and job creation. recovery needs to be strengthened by developing key growth drivers to stimulate job creation and return to full employment. the level of long-term unemployment, in particular in the union's poorest regions, and youth unemployment remain a concern and the eu is experiencing difficulties in restructuring its industry. in addition, there are still differences in economic development between european regions and between member states. the european fund for strategic investments will be one of the main instruments for increasing investment at eu level and will help to stimulate job creation. i support calls on the commission to actively promote the interaction of the various eu funds and to set up a monitoring system to identify cases of eu funding being combined. the programmes horizon 2020, cosme, sme funding programmes, erasmus+, as well as the programme and policy instruments supporting the creation of an environment conducive to innovation and contributing to the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, are important. the youth employment initiative is a key contribution to the union's priority objective of jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament stresses that the youth employment initiative is a key contribution and priority to the european union's efforts to create growth and jobs. it is therefore necessary to continue funding this programme in order to expand it and thus provide more young people with effective access to the labour market through a good quality job, continuing education or apprenticeship offer. parliament regrets that the negotiations on the 2016 eu budget did not provide for new commitment appropriations for the continued financing of the youth employment initiative, despite the fact that youth unemployment remains extremely high in the eu. the objective of further funding must be pursued while meeting the need to promote youth mobility supported by the erasmus+ programme. notes that despite the initial delays in implementing the initiative and the continuous delays in allocating the bodies responsible for the youth employment initiative action programmes in many member states, the current implementation figures show that the full capacity of the funds has been reached; parliament therefore calls on the commission to present its evaluation of the youth employment initiative by the end of april 2016 at the latest and in any event in time for the eu budget for 2017 to take account of the continuation of the programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the union budget has proven to be a crucial resource in tackling recent crises and responding to needs that had not been anticipated during the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the migration and refugee crisis or geopolitical tensions in europe’s neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the general guidelines for the 2017 budget. this resolution highlights the main factors, economic and geopolitical trends, which can have a decisive impact on the eu budget's receipts and payments. i support the provisions contained in the resolution which aim to ensure that the revenue of the union budget is more independent, stable, simple, fair, sustainable and predictable, and to reduce the burden of excessive expenditure on national budgets and increase transparency for citizens without increasing their overall tax burden.
in writing. ‒ the european economy remains in a very difficult situation. it is therefore essential to continue to promote growth and decent employment, poverty eradication and investment. the budget for the following year must be aligned with european policy coordination and based on economic forecasts. it is essential to ensure an adequate level of resources. in addition, there is a need to improve the access of smes to markets and to finance under existing programmes. further steps and new financial instruments should be taken to increase investment. i do not support the proposed measure to support refugees in turkey. it is unclear how it will be used by the turkish authorities. the question is whether this is just the price of a foreign exchange deal with turkey, because turkey will not solve the problems that we have to solve ourselves.
in writing. - i voted for this document, although i regret to say that i have many comments. the document rightly points out that the eu is currently facing many crises. it's economic, it's migration, and it's a lot of other things. unfortunately, i missed another crisis mentioned in this document. the crisis that is afflicting so many europeans now threatens the very survival of the countryside in the long term. this is an agricultural crisis. we all know that farmers in many member states are no longer able to make a living from their work. unfortunately, as a joke about their plight, the 2017 budgetary guidelines only mention agriculture, trade with russia, falling prices and climate change in a single, meaningless sentence. i very much hope that the drafters of the 2017 budget will take a more responsible approach to agriculture and rural development. we must put measures in next year's budget to deal with the agricultural crisis and hope that there will be more to save.
in writing. - i voted for this better legislation. the proposal aims to improve the quality of the commission's draft legislative acts, its annual and multiannual programming and its impact assessment of draft legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission's approach to better regulation. this interinstitutional agreement aims to facilitate negotiations under the ordinary legislative procedure. the three institutions agree that the legislative agenda should take full account of the results of any analysis of the possible 'european added value' of proposed european union action, as well as the results of the 'cost of no european action' assessment, without action at eu level. they also consider that public consultation and stakeholder consultation, ex post evaluation of existing legislation and impact assessments of new initiatives will help to achieve the goal of better regulation. the three institutions agree that european union legislation should be understandable and clear, allow citizens, administrations and businesses to easily understand their rights and obligations, set appropriate reporting, monitoring and evaluation requirements, avoid excessive regulatory and administrative burdens and be practical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. part of its better regulation agenda, the aim is to design eu policies and laws so that they achieve their objectives in the most efficient and effective way possible.
in writing. ‒ i support the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the commission on better law-making. the main objective of this interinstitutional agreement is to ensure that legislation drawn up by the eu institutions is comprehensible and clear, that citizens, administrations and businesses can easily understand their rights and obligations, that appropriate requirements are established and that excessive regulatory and administrative burdens are avoided.
in writing. ‒ the i believe that this interinstitutional agreement on better law-making will provide more effective means to achieve the ambitious policy objectives that have been set and to improve the quality of eu legislation. in particular, excessive regulation and administrative burden on citizens and companies must be reduced. it is also essential that the impact assessment pays particular attention to smes. i believe that more efforts should be made to establish an appropriate mechanism to ensure a more active direct participation of union citizens. in order to enhance transparency, a common mandatory and legally binding transparency register for lobbyists should be established.
in writing. ‒ i support the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i consider it a really good compromise. the objectives it sets out include the preparation of multiannual legislative programmes, the assessment of the impact of legislation already adopted, the reduction of administrative burdens for member states and businesses, and wider public consultation. the only thing i missed in this document was the commitment of all three institutions to report publicly on the actual results of these objectives every year. i am sure that it would be very interesting not only for politicians or policy analysts but for all european citizens to know how much the volume of eu legislation governing their lives has changed over the years, how much the famous 80,000 pages of european law have been reduced or increased. this would be an important means of increasing citizens' confidence in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because there is no doubt that better legislation must be the main objective of the european parliament's action. the already concluded agreement between the union institutions on cooperation aimed at simplifying and updating existing legislation is worth supporting. this is a good step towards meeting the expectations of these union citizens who were dissatisfied with the unclear procedures and complex legal definitions that made eu legislation unfriendly to citizens. it is also worth recalling the need for the eu institutions to make more use of political dialogue with national parliaments, which will undoubtedly strengthen the subsidiarity and proportionality mechanism in legislative framing.
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached by the institutions and consider that this agreement is the appropriate basis for establishing and developing new, more open and transparent relations between them, so that better legislation is possible for the benefit of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal not to extend the agreement with philip morris on cooperation in the fight against cigarette smuggling and to better apply eu and international anti-smuggling rules. in 2000, the european commission and eu member states brought cases against philip morris and several other tobacco manufacturers, accusing them of contributing to cigarette smuggling and obstructing the government's oversight of the tobacco industry. the cases were closed by agreements under which these companies committed to pay the eu and its countries $2.5 billion, as well as to actively combat smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the agreement signed with philip morris in 2004 expires on 9 july this year. however, the philip morris agreement was found to be ineffective as the reduced smuggling of genuine cigarettes was replaced by the smuggling of cheap white cigarettes. i support the proposal to the eu member states and the european commission to make more effective use of the new eu tobacco products directive, which provides for measures to control and monitor the supply of tobacco products, and to ratify the relevant protocol to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control. the commission should present an action plan to combat the smuggling of low-cost 'white' cigarettes and philip morris should continue to apply its anti-smuggling measures, irrespective of whether the agreement is renewed.
in writing. ‒ the in this resolution, the european parliament examines the agreement of 9 july 2004 between philip morris international and its affiliated companies and the european union and its member states on combating smuggling and counterfeiting. the main objective of the agreement with 'philip morris international' (hereinafter 'pmi') is to reduce the dominance of pmi products in the illicit eu tobacco market. the commission's technical assessment of the agreement with pmi concludes that this main objective has been effectively achieved, but that, as regards illegal products on the eu market, the smuggling of pmi products has not been substantially reduced. the european parliament notes that the monitoring and surveillance system provided for in the tobacco products directive should enter into force in may 2019. it stresses that the commission must take immediate action to ensure full transposition of the tobacco products directive into national law in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i believe that the main tools to fight illicit trade, counterfeiting of tobacco products and tax evasion should be the tobacco products directive and the fctc protocol. the money from these illicit activities goes mainly into funding organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the it is necessary to protect the eu's financial interests properly and to prevent the trade in contraband and counterfeit goods. however, there are doubts as to whether the extension of the agreements with the tobacco industry will ensure the proper implementation of the measures to combat cigarette smuggling. there is no information on the amount of funds allocated to each member state and how they have used the cash received under such agreements. i believe that the commission should put in place at eu level, before the expiry of the agreement, all the necessary measures to monitor and track pmi tobacco products and take legal action against any unlawful seizure of products from this manufacturer. it should be noted that there should be no regulatory loopholes after the expiry of the agreement with pmi until the entry into force of the tobacco products directive and the framework convention on tobacco control. therefore, as an additional measure to combat the trade in contraband and counterfeit goods, a proposal for a new supplementary regulation should be made to establish a monitoring and tracing system and to apply the provisions on 'know your customer' thorough checks.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with the tobacco giant philip morris international legalizes, in a sense, its products which appear on the market but are not marked with banners and labels. the aim of the agreement with pmi is to reduce the illicit circulation of pmi products on the illicit eu tobacco market. the commission found in its technical assessment that this objective had been effectively achieved, although, as regards illegal products on the eu market, the smuggling of pmi products had not been substantially reduced. the european parliament, for its part, stresses that the commission must take immediate action to ensure full transposition of the tobacco products directive into national law in all member states. as the objectives of reducing illicit trade have not been achieved, i consider the agreement with pmi in its current form, which, as i have already said, partially justifies the illicit circulation of its products, to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of urgent autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the tunisian economy has been severely affected by the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015. in this context, the european union wishes to reaffirm its support for tunisia and its concrete actions to support the development of the tunisian economy. it is proposed to apply unilaterally and temporarily an autonomous trade measure under which tunisia is granted a tariff quota allowing it to export 35 000 tonnes of olive oil per year to the union duty free, i.e. a total of 70 000 tonnes, without increasing the total volume of imports. this quota is fixed for a two-year period from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and may be applied from the date of exhaustion of the zero-tariff tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force under the union-tunisia association agreement. this measure will be of great benefit to the tunisian economy. the olive sector in tunisia indirectly creates more than one million jobs, representing one fifth of all jobs created in the agricultural sector in the country. olive oil is also the main agricultural product exported from tunisia.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the non-application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia. the tunisian economy was severely affected by the terrorist attacks of 18 march 2015 in tunis and 26 june 2015 in sousse, but there were already significant economic difficulties in tunisia before these events. in view of these circumstances, the european union wishes to reaffirm its support for tunisia and its concrete actions to support the development of the tunisian economy. the european commission is therefore proposing to apply unilaterally and temporarily an autonomous trade measure under which tunisia is to benefit from a tariff quota allowing it to export 35 000 tonnes of olive oil to the union each year duty-free, for a total of 70 000 tonnes, without increasing its total import volume. this quota is fixed for a two-year period from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 and may be applied from the date of exhaustion of the zero-tariff tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes currently in force under the union-tunisia association agreement. this measure will be of great benefit to the tunisian economy. the olive sector in tunisia indirectly creates more than one million jobs, representing one fifth of all jobs created in the agricultural sector in the country. olive oil is also the main agricultural product exported from tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i support the autonomous trade measure. the measure marginally interferes with olive oil production within the eu member states, but can have a great impact on stability and security in the region.
in writing. ‒ in view of the difficult economic situation in tunisia and the terrorist attacks in spring 2015, which have further weakened the country's economy, the european union is taking concrete action to support the development of the tunisian economy. the regulation provides for a temporary authorisation of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil for duty-free export to the eu for two years. the measure is expected to benefit the tunisian economy, as the country's olive growing sector indirectly generates more than one million jobs. by committing to such action, the european union is supporting the development of the tunisian economy and at the same time promoting the democratic process in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis on 18 march 2015 and in sousse on 26 june 2015 have severely affected the tunisian economy, which has already suffered from a number of structural shocks. i am convinced that the eu must help its neighbour to support its economy and thus avoid another potential source of unrest. i consider that the unilateral decision to apply temporarily an autonomous trade measure establishing a tariff quota for tunisia to export an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil per year to the union in 2016 and 2017 duty-free constitutes a small but effective contribution to tunisia, whose olive sector indirectly employs around 1 million people, or one fifth of the total agricultural workforce in the country, and whose unemployment rate has long since exceeded 30%.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on veterinary medicines, which aims to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. the development of resistance to antibiotics in livestock requires the restriction of antibiotic use and the development of new types of medicines. the new proposal encourages research into new medicines and restricts the use of preventive antibiotics in animals. it aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their shelf life and the pharmacovigilance process applicable to them. the european commission proposes to improve access to and availability of medicines, in particular for non-indigenous species, to reduce the administrative burden, in particular related to the pharmacovigilance process, to promote innovation and competitiveness in the sector, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicines and to combat antibiotic resistance. i agree with the suggestions that the provisions on antimicrobial resistance should be broader in scope and include clear definitions of the different treatments and that the prophylactic use of antibacterial agents should be prohibited. it is also necessary to strengthen incentives to support innovation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. the aim of this draft regulation is to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their shelf life and the pharmacovigilance process applicable to them. it was concluded that a specific regulatory framework adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector is necessary. the current legal framework has raised problems such as the shortage of veterinary medicines (especially in small markets), the administrative burden of regulation, the functioning of the internal market and, of course, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance. the commission would like to establish a list of very important antibiotics for human use only. the european parliament supports this idea, provided that the list is based on sound scientific criteria. the european medicines agency has excellent guidance on this and it should be followed. finally, contrary to what the commission proposes, the online marketing of antibiotics (and of prescription veterinary products in general) should be banned because it poses a serious risk to public health. the commission also proposes to simplify the use of medicines for human use sold without a marketing authorisation for animal treatment. the text leaves the responsibility for such use to veterinarians. parliament does not question the responsibility of veterinarians but calls for this possibility to be better defined, clarifying that the use of medicinal products for human use should be considered only as a last resort when there are no better alternatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. there is a need to ensure the availability of safe, effective and affordable veterinary medicinal products in the eu while guaranteeing their responsible use.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the ec proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products. the purpose of this legislation is to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products and to simplify the use of medicinal products for human use marketed without a marketing authorisation for the treatment of animals.
in writing. ‒ the eu must have a common legal framework to adequately protect public health, animal health and the environment and ensure food safety. the new legal framework must be proportionate and adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector. it should be noted that the veterinary and human medicine sectors have very different needs in relation to medicinal products. therefore, a different regulatory mechanism should also apply. in view of the prevalence of antimicrobial resistance, it is necessary to address the public health risk associated with antimicrobial resistance as a matter of urgency. the development of new medicinal products for the treatment and prevention of animal diseases must be encouraged. an effectively functioning common market for veterinary medicinal products in the eu should be established, which would increase the availability of veterinary medicinal products, foster competitiveness and innovation and reduce administrative burden.
in writing. - i agree with the content of a really well-formed proposal. the issue of safe and acceptable veterinary medicinal products is of importance to the entire eu agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i supported this report because it was long overdue for a change to be made. the european commission's draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products amends the provisions on these products. this document aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their shelf life, as well as the pharmacovigilance process for them. and pharmaceutical safety is paramount, because the final consumer of agricultural products is always a human being. this should be borne in mind whenever the law is amended. there is every indication that the new provisions will improve access to veterinary medicinal products and reduce the administrative burden, in particular as regards pharmacovigilance.
in writing. the legal framework governing veterinary medicinal products should be updated in the light of scientific progress, current market conditions and economic realities, taking into account animals, nature and their interaction with humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to repeal directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products and to amend regulation no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, in order to take account of the fact that the centralised authorisation of veterinary medicinal products is different from the authorisation of similar medicinal products for human use.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. in september 2014, following an assessment of the functioning of the internal market in this sector, the commission published a proposal that the rules applicable to veterinary medicinal products should be merged into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products, repealing and replacing the provisions of directive 2001/82/ec establishing a community code on veterinary medicinal products and amending the provisions of regulation (ec) no 726/2004 in order to remove any reference to veterinary medicinal products and thus to fully separate the provisions on veterinary medicinal products from those on medicinal products for human use. the european parliament broadly supports this proposal and welcomes the aim of aligning the provisions of the regulation with those of the treaty of lisbon. parliament welcomes the proposal to separate marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. however, some aspects of this proposal still need to be improved and a cross-reference to the new veterinary medicines regulation and a clear indication of the role of the european medicines agency in the issuing and supervision of veterinary medicines under the centralised procedure are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is important to update the regulatory framework governing human and veterinary medicines at eu level. the european parliament makes use of this technical amending regulation to empower the ema to fulfil its growing tasks and to ensure that the rules on fees payable to the agency are subject to a democratic decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european commission's proposal to amend the current legislation establishing a community authorisation and supervision procedure for medicinal products for human and veterinary use. i support the commission's proposal to merge the rules on veterinary medicinal products into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products and to completely separate the provisions on veterinary medicinal products from those on medicinal products for human use.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. in order to ensure a high level of public health protection and to promote the efficiency of the internal market, the efficient functioning of the european medicines agency should be promoted. medicinal products must be placed on the market only after having been authorised by the competent authorities. users should only receive medicines that are safe and effective. taking into account the specific needs of the veterinary sector, it is necessary to clearly distinguish between marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products and marketing authorisations for medicinal products for human use. in order to increase transparency and accountability, the role of the european parliament should be strengthened and its full participation in the setting of the agency's fees ensured.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this legislative proposal on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. in september 2014, the commission, after assessing the functioning of the internal market in this sector, appropriately proposed to combine the different rules applicable to veterinary medicinal products into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products. it repeals and replaces the provisions of directive 2001/82/ec on the community code relating to veterinary medicinal products and amends regulation (ec) no 726/2004 by deleting any reference to veterinary medicinal products, thus fully separating the regulation of veterinary medicinal products from that of medicinal products for human use. the only comment that can be made is that the new legislation lacks a definition of the role of the european medicines agency in the field of veterinary medicines issuance and supervision.
in writing. i believe that medicines for rare diseases and rare animal species (now newly defined as medicines for small markets) are one of the main reasons for the revision of the legislation on veterinary medicines. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the requirements for the budget of the european medicines agency, which have been incorporated into the regulation, are maintained.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this proposal to create a thriving data-driven economy. the volume of data is growing faster than ever before 16 trillion gigabytes of data will be available by 2020. knowledge-based decisions using big data can significantly increase productivity and competitiveness, and the benefits of a data-driven economy will add an additional 1.9% to gdp by 2020. the development of the big data sector is an integral part of the new digital market and it is necessary to ensure that the development of this sector creates innovative and competitive business models in line with the requirements of the eu data protection framework. i agree that it is necessary to develop a regulatory framework to address the problems of the economic, technological, social and cultural data economy, such as those related to access to, control over and ownership of data, in particular public data. big data can help to increase economic productivity and improve services for consumers and public authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the future prosperous data-driven economy can become an opportunity for growth and jobs, including by enabling new business models and services and improving productivity. the creation of a proper framework for economic growth requires a good balance between maintaining trust and safeguarding and promoting consumer rights through effective monitoring, evaluation and appropriate response, where necessary through legislative means. parliament hopes that the benefits of a data-driven economy will have an impact on society and businesses across the value chain at national and european levels. the development of a data-driven economy is considered to be a cornerstone of the digital single market strategy and is welcomed as a potential to help restore the competitiveness of smart sectors in europe and to accelerate the european economic recovery, investment in growth and innovation across all sectors. this can only be achieved if the right business environment and measures are in place to promote the digital transformation and if these technologies are in line with the eu data protection legal framework, taking into account the risks and challenges associated with fundamental rights, in particular privacy and data protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the text is positive towards the innovative potential of big data; not only does it welcome the free flow of data initiative, but also highlights the importance of open data and open source, privacy and security by design, modern and future-proof regulatory framework to ensure the right conditions are set for growth and innovation in a data-driven economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on building a thriving data-driven economy. i agree with the report that the e-data economy can be a source of growth and jobs, and that new business models and services can improve productivity. i therefore believe that investment in infrastructure, research and technological development and the promotion of start-ups and smes should be given due attention.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european union needs to develop a data-driven economy. it is the source of economic productivity. in order to ensure that the data-driven economy can develop without hindrance, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate legal framework and strategies and measures for the protection of personal data and information security. research and technological development in the technical, social and economic sciences should be supported. particular attention shall be paid to promoting investment in the data-driven economy. the conditions for smes must be facilitated and greater public participation encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted unanimously in favour of this resolution on the data-driven economy. the future belongs to the data-driven economy, and it is in this economy that we must shape new business models and services to improve productivity. at the same time, appropriate consumer protection measures need to be developed. i hope that the data-driven economy will have an impact on society and on businesses in all types of value chains at national and european levels. the creation of a data-driven economy is at the heart of the new digital single market strategy. i therefore welcome the opportunities it offers to help restore the competitiveness of europe's smart sectors and to accelerate the recovery of the european economy, investment in growth and innovation across all sectors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in eritrea. the civilian population of eritrea is arbitrarily detained or arrested for a variety of unjustified reasons, including criticism or opposition to the government, journalistic activities, practice of an unofficial religion, evasion or desertion from compulsory military service, cooperation with foreign entities, or attempts to flee the country. fear and oppression have led to a huge number of people fleeing eritrea (5,000 a month) and they are the third largest group of refugees entering europe. i support calls on the eritrean government to end the detention of opposition figures and innocent civilians and to ensure that the accused are brought to justice. the government of eritrea must immediately begin to implement reforms, such as the abolition of the one-party system and the resumption of the national assembly and elections. the government of eritrea must heed the calls of the international community and release those wrongfully imprisoned.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the situation in eritrea. the detention of civilians in eritrea is arbitrary and indefinite for a variety of unjustified reasons, including criticism or opposition to the government, journalistic activity, practice of an unofficial religion, evasion or desertion from compulsory military service, cooperation with foreign entities, attempts to flee the country or having a family member who has fled the country, or without clear justification. the detention of children is a serious violation of the human rights of the detainees. in addition, women in detention are often supervised by male security guards, increasing the risk of sexual and gender-based violence. the european parliament calls on the government of eritrea to comply with its obligations under the united nations and other international agreements to which eritrea is a party, including the obligations under the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. calls in this regard for greater transparency and cooperation with un inspectors and international observers to enable them to carry out targeted and unhindered inspections of detention facilities in accordance with the requirements of the convention;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. the ep notes with great concern the continuing deplorable human rights situation and the complete absence of rule of law and media freedom in eritrea. therefore, it stresses that addressing the justice deficit, democratic governance and restoration of the rule of law must be prioritised by ending authoritarian rule by fear of torture and of other human rights violations, some of which may amount to crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the situation in eritrea. this country has a record of gross violations of human rights. residents can be arrested and imprisoned for criticism of the government, journalistic activities, practice of an unofficial religion, attempts to flee the country. detainees and children are held in inhumane conditions. women in detention are at risk of sexual violence. i support the calls in the ep resolution for the eritrean government to comply with its obligations under the united nations and other international agreements and to cooperate with un inspectors and international observers to enable them to carry out targeted and unhindered inspections of detention facilities in accordance with the requirements of the convention.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution. eritrea is one of the poorest and most closed countries in africa and is one of the fastest-developing countries in the world. the situation in the country keeps getting worse. there are systematic, widespread and gross violations of human rights. he was also responsible for the implementation of the 'contract for the supply of electricity and natural gas' in the republic of moldova. in view of this, urgent action is necessary. in particular, financial support to the government of eritrea should be suspended and monitoring mechanisms should be established. the aid shall not be used to finance repression or any other activity related to forced labour. the commission shall ensure that the funds are not used by the government of eritrea but are strictly allocated to the needs of the eritrean people in relation to development, democracy, human rights, good governance, security. in order to stabilise the situation in the country, it is essential that the president and the government of eritrea embark on reforms that will help eritrea to comply with its international and human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the reports on the situation in eritrea. on the other hand, after hearing and voting for yet another highly concerning document, we have not heard the most important question: what can we do to address the causes of this terrible news? the recent actions of the eu institutions, which are designed to try and control the flow of refugees, seem to suggest that europe is still behaving like a doctor who is not very smart, treating the symptoms of the disease rather than the cause. as regards guidelines for a proper solution to the crisis in eritrea, i would like to draw your attention to the good experience europe has. the ethnic conflicts that had been recurring in the balkans for 15 years were quickly put to rest as europe made it clear that a european perspective could be offered to the countries of the region in return for peace and stability. i would therefore like to ask mrs mogherini to explain whether the eu can offer the parties to the conflict in eritrea the economic and political benefits that will encourage them to take the steps we have been waiting for, ending the conflict and finally embarking on democratic and market reforms. but perhaps we should talk about specific european military support for one of the parties to the conflict?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the recent political crisis has shown the need to increase the transparency and public accountability of the macedonian institutions, including appropriate oversight mechanisms for key services and internal structures. the european parliament encourages macedonia to find a way out of the political impasse, to ensure the return of the opposition to parliament, to implement systematic reforms of the rule of law and to strengthen good neighbourly relations. political influence on the media, the judiciary and the public administration system, and corruption remain major problems. i support calls for political parties to assume their respective responsibilities towards citizens and to ensure without delay the full and constructive implementation of all commitments, including the commitment to strengthen good neighbourly relations, in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european parliament believes that civil society must be well organised, but remains concerned about the difficult conditions in which it operates and the public attacks on civil society organisations by politicians and the media. calls on the authorities to ensure that civil society organisations are not discriminated against on any grounds such as political affiliation, religious beliefs or ethnic origin; it also regrets the lack of cooperation with civil society organisations on policy-making and legislation, both at central and local level. calls on the authorities to encourage the active participation of civil society organisations, taking into account the whole electoral process; urges the government to recognise the added value of civil society organisations by consulting them in the legislative and policy-making process, to prepare an appropriate action plan for 2015-2017, to establish a council for cooperation with civil society organisations, to facilitate the necessary dialogue and to involve civil society organisations in policy-making on a permanent and structured basis; parliament also recalled that education and cultural training can help to promote tolerance and reconciliation between different ethnic groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i welcome the european reform process in western balkans. it has, through mr vajgl, played an important role in the mediation efforts between government and opposition to end the domestic political crisis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and its progress towards eu membership. i support the provisions of the resolution calling for the independence and capacity of the judiciary, the police, the prosecutor's office and the state commission for the prevention of corruption to be strengthened. i also support the position that political parties and civil society organisations should make greater efforts to strengthen coexistence and dialogue between different ethnic, national and religious communities and to respect the activities of civil democratic organisations. the resolution welcomes the creation of market economy conditions and the simplification of the regulatory framework, but points out that the weak implementation of the rule of law, the inefficient judicial system, the large-scale shadow economy and corruption pose major obstacles to business.
in writing. - i supported this report. macedonia is an important eu neighbour with an ambition to join. the objective of eu enlargement is to ensure that future member states are well prepared to participate in the single market, respect human rights and freedoms, and have economies that can withstand the competitive pressure of the eu. the legal basis for stopping the eu enlargement process, even if it fails, is in the founding treaties, and we must all work to ensure that the new members are properly prepared. the commission therefore has an important role to play in monitoring the preparations of the candidate countries for eu membership and, where appropriate, in assisting or sharing knowledge of all the processes of concern, some of which are also mentioned in the report under consideration.
in writing. i welcome the quadrilateral agreement of 2 june and 15 july 2015 and the fact that the commissioner responsible for development, three members of the european parliament and the eu mediator on the ground have facilitated its achievement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a report on the progress of the accession negotiations with montenegro in 2015. corruption remains a major problem, and concerns remain about organised crime and freedom of expression. further action should also be taken to combat unemployment, social discrimination and poverty, and to strengthen labour and trade union rights. i support calls for the republic of montenegro to hold free and fair elections and to implement the envisaged reforms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the 2015 report on montenegro. the european parliament welcomes the continuing progress in accession negotiations with montenegro and calls for further tangible progress in the fulfilment of the criteria for closing chapters already under negotiation and opening new chapters. parliament welcomes the significant progress made in improving the legal framework in relation to the independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary and expects the relevant rules to be fully implemented in practice. calls, however, for the improvement of legislative and administrative capacity in the area of asylum and migration and urges the commission to provide support to this end; parliament commended the montenegrin government for the actions it has taken to help stateless persons on its territory address their status and called on montenegro to continue its efforts in this area, with particular regard to children, including by further facilitating the registration of births and subsequent registration or re-registration in civil registries. parliament also called on the government to further strengthen the legal and institutional framework for combating corruption and to ensure effective protection of whistleblowers. calls also on the government and all sectors of public life and civil society to become more involved and cooperate more effectively in the prevention of corruption;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i support the european reform process in western balkans and the efforts made by montenegro in the domestic reforms and in the accession talks.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the reports. it is worth noting that montenegro has made progress in the eu accession negotiations. the country has made welcome progress in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights, including the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, further measures to further encourage montenegro to progress towards the fulfilment of the criteria in order to close chapters already negotiated and open new chapters are necessary. particular attention must be paid to combating unemployment and social discrimination. it is necessary to strengthen cooperation in the field of euro-atlantic integration. this would be an important guarantor of stability throughout the western balkans region.
in writing. - i supported this report. montenegro is a small but important eu neighbour seeking membership. the objective of eu enlargement is to ensure that future member states are well prepared to participate in the single market, respect human rights and freedoms, and have economies that can withstand the competitive pressure of the eu. the legal basis for stopping the eu enlargement process, even if it fails, is in the founding treaties, and we must all work to ensure that the new members are properly prepared. the commission therefore has an important role to play in monitoring the preparations of the candidate countries for eu membership and, where appropriate, in assisting or sharing knowledge of all the processes of concern, some of which are also mentioned in the report under consideration.
in writing. i welcome the significant progress made in improving the legal framework in relation to enhancing the independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary and hope that the relevant rules will be fully implemented in practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2015 progress report on strengthening the banking union. while the eu is already taking the first steps towards a banking union, a common system of bank deposit guarantees is still needed. the creation of a banking union is intended to ensure financial stability and to protect taxpayers from the cost of bailing out failing banks. the creation of a single banking supervisory mechanism in november 2014 was a first step towards this union. a single system for the resolution of banks followed, including a special fund to cover losses of troubled banks, common rescue rules and updated deposit protection rules. the aim is to establish a common deposit guarantee scheme. the european commission's legislative proposal would provide a euro area guarantee for deposits of up to €100,000.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the banking union is an important instrument for ensuring the stability and restoring confidence in the euro area banks, for enhancing financial integration, for reducing the risks and the risk of irresponsible behaviour in the european banking system, for contributing to the disconnection of the state and the banks and for promoting risk-sharing in monetary union. parliament called for a broad representation in the banking union, with the future inclusion and invitation of the national competent authorities of non-participating member states in accordance with the legal rules and procedures established, and closer cooperation with third countries outside the eu. furthermore, it confirms that closer coordination between national competent authorities across the eu and internationally is essential to ensure effective regulation and supervision of systemically important banks. parliament welcomes the fact that the european central bank is seeking to improve the macro-stress test model, with a view to integrating more realistic dynamic elements into the stress test model and to incorporating appropriate stress liquidity testing, as well as to integrating the aspects of spillover effects in the banking system and the two-way interaction with the real economy and the shadow banking sector into the broader model.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report as adopted in econ welcomes the evolution of a banking union and the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and the single resolution board (srb). it supports the regulatory induced process of increasing banks’ capital and reducing leverage, but also points to the possible negative effects that may have on lending.
in writing. ‒ the i agreed to this attic. i welcome the establishment of institutions such as the single supervisory mechanism and the single dispute resolution board. banking union is an important instrument to ensure the stability and confidence of euro area banks, to enhance financial integration, to reduce risks and the risk of irresponsible behaviour in the european banking system, to contribute to the dismantling of the links between states and banks and to promote risk-sharing in monetary union. the rapporteur rightly calls for a broad representation in the banking union, with the possibility of inviting national competent authorities of non-participating member states to participate in the future, in accordance with the established rules, and for closer cooperation with third countries. i also welcome the call for closer coordination of national competent authorities across the eu and internationally to ensure effective regulation and supervision of systemically important banks. i welcome the ecb's commitment to improve the resilience testing model for banks under the most adverse macro-conditions.
in writing. i welcome the successful establishment of the single resolution board and the establishment of national resolution authorities in the member states. i note that the board has developed a set of resolution operations manuals in line with the relevant eba standards, which aim to promote a consistent, effective and proportionate approach to the resolution tasks of the bpem.
for the verts/ale group it is no secret that the pigmeat sector is in a deep crisis, as is the dairy sector and others. today, the price of pork is the lowest it has been in a decade. it decreased by an average of 13% per year. of course, the price in the shops is going down much more slowly, if at all. we all know that many pig farms have taken out loans to modernise their production and to meet animal welfare and environmental requirements. the low buying-in prices therefore raise the question: can pig farming survive in europe? what is the reason for this? the reason is twofold. on the one hand, there has been an increase in the world's supply of pigmeat. on the other hand, there is a need for costly animal welfare measures in europe. the unfairness of traders and the outbreak of african swine fever are not the least of these factors. what can we do? let us start with the harmonisation of international competition conditions. why do we force our farmers to adhere to animal welfare standards, but allow the import of meat at a quarter the price from countries like the united states or brazil that have almost no animal welfare standards? we also know that the beef animals are fed gm food. i call on the commission to take measures to restrict meat imports from third countries which apply lower animal welfare standards than the european ones. it would be even better if the commission took real action and proposed the introduction of high global standards of animal welfare at the level of the world trade organisation. secondly, we must take measures to ensure that the value added is distributed fairly, and we must limit the freedom of the traders to manipulate the prices on the shelves. thirdly, i would remind you that farmers are very much looking forward to real export incentives. i am referring in particular to the export guarantee scheme. and last but not least, the african swine fever. this disease, which is present in some member states, including my country lithuania, is damaging the reputation of eu pigmeat and is restricting export opportunities. the lithuanian authorities have succeeded in stopping the spread of this disease, but farmers suffer significant losses due to unfair commercial practices related to it, whereby buyers offer a very low price for healthy pigs raised on farms even in a semi-safe zone iii. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you very much for asking. that's actually a very good question. i said in my speech that european standards are high enough and it should not be the case that imports from other countries are of much lower standards, thus lowering prices and our pigmeat market cannot compete and thus farmers get low purchase prices and some people eat the bad product that is imported.
thank you, chairman. the european commission is not committed to making changes on glyphosate, and the role of the parliament is therefore particularly important. the commission's actions show that it believes that there are no problems with glyphosate, even before the scandals that have arisen in europe over german beer, let alone the scientific studies on the possible harm of glyphosate to the human body. on the other hand, it would of course be premature to ban glyphosate altogether. today, agriculture is already in crisis, with grain prices at historic lows. the ban on glyphosate would put farmers in an enviable position, and the most rational thing to do today would be to extend its use for a couple of years and to tighten the rules on its use, considering that it is not always safe to spray the fields with glyphosate, for example, before harvesting. it is therefore rational to invest time and money in the search for alternatives of similar quality and in the appropriate training of farmers. thank you. thank you.
in writing.– we cannot talk about migration as somebody else’s business. as the stronghold of democracy and liberal values, the eu should care about those lives lost at the sea. in the name of the security and prosperity of our peoples the eu should develop a well-functioning, strong mechanism to be able to adequately respond to this challenge of our highly globalised and interdependent world. we have to apply a holistic approach, which means involvement of all the stakeholders and setting the rules of play. the common external border of the eu should be strengthened and managed effectively and inside the eu the schengen rules must be obeyed. now we clearly see all disadvantages and gaps of the dublin iii regulation and call for changes needed to ensure fairness, solidarity and shared responsibility between the eu member states, as mentioned in the report. moreover, crucial measures should be taken not only inside the eu managing migration. the union should also help build necessary capacities in third countries to address the root causes of migration.
in writing. mr president, the report touches on the very important issue of migration, which has become a problem for all the member states of the european union. frontex data indicating that 1.83 million people were apprehended in 2015 trying to cross eu borders illegally is alarming and requires action by the european union institutions. therefore, several important issues related to migration need to be addressed. first, let us not forget that the influx of refugees is being exploited by smugglers, by people-smugglers. it is good that the report raises the need to combat this phenomenon at international level in order to dismantle the networks of traffickers and prevent the smuggling of migrants. secondly, the european union must manage the protection of its external borders effectively and implement a transparent and uniform visa policy in all eu countries. cooperation with third countries is also of strategic importance in order to avoid the root causes of migration. and above all, let us remember that when we create a new legal framework for migration, we must first of all remember to ensure the safety of our citizens. all these activities must be supported by a proportionate and appropriate financial contribution allocated to the member states in order to enable them to implement safeguard mechanisms as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would like to stress that our main task should be to ensure consistency in decision-making, which is lacking today in the field of migration.
for the second week after the mass picket, milk producers have been protesting outside the lithuanian ministry of agriculture tent, waiting for solutions that will help them survive. this illustrates the critical situation in agriculture: milk prices are between 10 and 15 euro cents and falling, the same is happening with pigs, and there are problems in other sectors. i am grateful to you, mr commissioner, for your interest in lithuania, which you visited recently and met with representatives of lithuania and farmers. that, of course, gave me hope. however, i cannot support voluntary production cuts. i wonder what effect you expect from that? moreover, the revenue foregone should be compensated by the parties themselves. i wonder how many countries will come out? i believe that production in the milk sector should be regulated, at least temporarily, and that this should be mandatory throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on certain products originating in the acp states. the proposed interim measure provides for free movement of products originating in acp countries other than the least developed countries and unrestricted access to the eu market without quotas, with a view to the conclusion and application of the relevant economic partnership agreements in line with the wto framework as from 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on this report, in which the consultative working party unanimously decided that there are no substantive changes to this commission proposal other than those indicated as substantive changes. the consultative working party also found that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous act and the abovementioned substantive amendments, the proposal only seeks to codify the existing act without changing its substance. the commission proposal concerns the recasting, codification and presentation of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called market access regulation governing imports of products originating in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states. this interim measure provides for the free movement of products originating in acp countries other than the least developed countries and for unrestricted access to the eu market without quotas, while preparing for the conclusion and application of the relevant economic partnership agreements in line with the wto framework as from 1 october 2016. there are currently 27 countries listed in annex i to the marketing authorisation regulation. the aim of codification is to ensure transparency and clarity and to simplify eu legislation, as the original act has been amended many times. the market access regulation has been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007, including the harmonisation of legislation following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon under the trade act omnibus ii and subsequent commission delegated regulations (see annex iii to the commission proposal). codification is therefore necessary to ensure that the regulation is clearer and more understandable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. eu regulation must be clear and transparent. eu law needs to be made simpler and more accessible to citizens, so that they can gain new opportunities and enjoy the specific rights it confers on them. the new regulation will replace the various acts whose provisions were incorporated in it, without changing the content of the acts to be codified. it should be noted that the involvement of acp countries in the rules-based global trading system is a crucial step towards promoting their sustainable development, eradicating poverty and improving living conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the conclusion of the legal services consultative group, there are no substantive amendments to the proposal other than those identified as substantive. the consultative working party also found that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous act and the abovementioned substantive amendments, the proposal only seeks to codify the existing act without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr wałęsa, member of the european parliament, on the so-called market access regulation, which regulates imports of products originating in the acp states. the new provisions aim to standardise existing international agreements and, importantly, to ensure transparency and clarity and to simplify eu legislation. such activities should be a legislative priority in the european parliament. complex rules that are difficult to interpret are the biggest problem with eu legislation. any simplification is worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. the objective of the proposal is to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland and to promote a partnership framework that will lead to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone, taking into account the interests of both parties.
in writing. – the agreement with greenland is the third most important for the eu in terms of its economic value. the ex-post and ex-ante evaluation of the current protocol, carried out on behalf of the european commission in the first half of 2014 and published in july 2014, delivers some key findings on the effectiveness of the current protocol, even though, as the european commission mentioned, it focused only on the first out of three years of implementation of the current protocol. the main conclusion of the report is that ‘it would be in the interest of both the eu and greenland to renew the protocol, the protocol provides important economic benefits to both parties, and helps ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region.’ generally speaking, the fpa objectives have been achieved. important exceptions include: agreed quotas for offshore cod that are not consistent with ices advice, though noting that data collected from the fishery will be used to refine management of the stock; limited supply of fish landings to greenland; and the generation of limited employment in greenland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. it strengthens cooperation between the eu and two countries as well as promoting a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone.
in writing. i agree to the conclusion of this protocol on a special fisheries partnership agreement with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. it should be noted that this agreement is economically beneficial for both parties. it will also strengthen cooperation between the european union and greenland. eu vessels will be granted access to the various fish stocks in greenland's exclusive economic zone and financial support will be provided for greenland's fisheries policy. in addition, a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources will be developed in the greenland fishing zone.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because it deals with the essential issues. one of them is to protect the very sensitive and vulnerable flora and fauna of the arctic. this can be achieved by taking measures for sustainable use and conservation of resources. another important aspect the protocol provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 17 799 978, to be paid for the duration of the protocol, i.e. five years. this will ensure that eu vessels have access to the fish market in the greenland free trade area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on certain aspects of the eu-macao air services agreement. the proposal replaces some provisions of the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. in 2002, the court of justice of the eu ruled that the traditional clauses in bilateral agreements between member states on the assignment of air services infringed eu law. on the basis of those articles, a third state may refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or the authorisation of an air carrier designated by a member state but not owned by the member state or its nationals and not effectively controlled by them.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which deals with the european union-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. international air links between member states and third countries have traditionally been established by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, the court of justice of the eu ruled that the traditional clauses in bilateral agreements between member states on the assignment of air services infringed eu law. on the basis of those articles, a third state may refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or the authorisation of an air carrier designated by a member state but not owned by the member state or its nationals and not effectively controlled by them. this was seen as discrimination against eu air carriers which are established in one member state but owned and controlled by another member state. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees that nationals of member states who have exercised the right of establishment may enjoy in the member state in which they are established the same rights as the nationals of that member state. there are also other issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured by amending or supplementing existing bilateral agreements between member states and third countries on air services. the commission has thus agreed to an agreement replacing some of the provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the consent for the agreement. it will allow compliance with eu law in terms of competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, taking into account the judgment of the european court of justice and the conclusions of the transport council. the commission has agreed an agreement replacing some provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. they include prohibition of anti-competitive activities, equal treatment of carriers and their enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure that the standard rate cannot be lower than 15% from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2018. given that all member states currently apply a vat rate above 15%, the existing minimum standard rate of 15% also provides a degree of flexibility for member states, as it allows for vat reforms aimed at reducing the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the possibility of applying preferential rates.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this communication, which amends the provision of directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to apply a minimum standard rate. the vat directive provides that the standard rate may not be less than 15% from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015. the minimum vat rates are based on the fact that the vat rate below the minimum threshold for crossborder and distance trade is still applied in the country of origin rather than in the country of destination. thus, in all member states, the application of the standard minimum tariff as currently in force provides useful safeguards for the proper functioning of the internal market. in this context, pending decisions on the final form of the system, the rapporteur of the european parliament agrees with the commission's proposal to maintain and apply retroactively the principle of a minimum standard rate of vat of 15% and to propose to extend the current rules for three years (until 31 december 2018).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a minimum standard rate applied in all member states provides a useful safeguard to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. i agree with the report. it should be noted that vat is one of the most important sources of taxes and revenue. it should be noted that in countries where vat is lower, consumption is higher, which also determines the state of the economy. i think it is appropriate to maintain and apply retroactively the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15%. i support the proposal to extend the current rules for a further three years until 31 december 2018. in that case, member states will continue to be able to apply the vat rate they deem appropriate, but it cannot be less than 15%. it should be noted that in many eu countries, the preferential vat is applied specifically to food and other consumer goods that are consumed in the most common way. the main reason why eu countries introduce reduced vat rates on food is to increase the purchasing power of the lowest income earners, because in their consumption basket, food represents the most important part of consumption expenditure.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the vat directive provides that the standard rate may not be less than 15% from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015. the commission wanted to extend this obligation until december 2017, while parliament wants to extend it for another year. it should be noted that even at present no eu country applies a vat rate of 15%. the lowest rate is in luxembourg, where it is 17%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to launch strategic cooperation between europol and brazil in the fight against organised crime. europol has a clear need to cooperate with brazil, which is becoming an increasingly important country in the fight against organised crime, such as aid for illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as cybercrime. the strategic agreement does not include the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which supports the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the european police office (europol) and the federal republic of brazil. such an agreement with brazil would be a strategic cooperation agreement, as it would help to combat organised crime and contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement. such agreements may involve the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also cover the exchange of personal data. this proposal concerns the proposed endorsement of a strategic cooperation between europol and brazil. the strategic agreement does not include the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. exchanges of information could be carried out in the areas of specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as advice and assistance in specific criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on this report. the information exchange does not include the exchange of personal data, which is one of the most crucial points when fighting organised crime, and especially terrorism.
in writing. ‒ europol's strategic cooperation with brazilian law enforcement is aimed at strengthening the fight against transnational organised crime, trafficking in human beings, drugs and international financial and cybercrime. this type of crime does not recognise national borders and criminal groups take advantage of the inadequacy of international cooperation in this area. the network of third parties with which such agreements are concluded should therefore be extended.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it should be noted that there are positive aspects to the report. it hopes that strategic cooperation between the eu and brazil will help to combat organised crime and contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement. however, the report does not address the real current situation in the country, especially in the fight against organized crime. there are also growing doubts about the ability of the brazilian authorities to ensure the confidentiality of data and prevent leakage.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i voted in favour of the report because strategic cooperation between europol and the brazilian authorities will improve the security of citizens in the member states. this agreement does not concern the exchange of personal data, and therefore the most sensitive issues in international agreements are not covered here. the agreement will also give europol more resources to combat drug trafficking and organised crime. it will also be possible to introduce a more effective barrier to electronic crime and fraud in connection with payment by credit card. without this agreement, such measures have been difficult or even impossible to take up to now. the conclusion of a strategic agreement with brazil will remove most of the obstacles to an effective fight against cross-border crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr hermann winkler. the public prosecutor's office in leipzig (germany) requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of this member of the european parliament, as a pre-trial investigation procedure had been opened in relation to an alleged criminal offence. that request relates to the preliminary investigation into a serious road traffic accident involving hermann winkler on 23 september 2015. the criminal proceedings shall not relate to an opinion or vote expressed by a member of the european parliament in the exercise of his duties under the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler. the public prosecutor’s office in leipzig has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep hermann winkler in connection with launching investigative proceedings concerning an alleged offence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to develop a new international legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. in 1995, the un adopted the agreement on fisheries. the fisheries community regards the un fisheries agreement as a good agreement, which creates a good legal framework, providing the means to keep pace with change and to work together to achieve and update the main objectives. with regard to the effectiveness of the current system, it is important to establish a comprehensive global framework to better address the conservation of marine biodiversity and to develop an international legally binding instrument.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the issues of fisheries in the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction (united nations convention on the law of the sea). the european parliament's position is that maritime activities are changing and multiplying rapidly, and that the pressure to maintain and conserve marine biodiversity is therefore constantly increasing. in this context, parliament welcomes the continued work of the unga and the open-ended ad hoc informal working group. it is difficult to imagine an effective and well-coordinated measure for marine biodiversity that does not include one of the most important activities in the waters - fishing. this should also not lead to the amendment or withdrawal of the un fisheries agreement, which creates a framework that, as in the case of the eu, if properly applied, can improve the situation and produce results. in addition, the new agreement should include accountability measures for all actors involved, as it is difficult to predict real effectiveness and progress without such measures. the efforts to take into account the needs of developing countries, capacity building and information sharing should also be given priority. in this perspective, and with a view to sharing good practice, the eu should continue to play a leading role in the development and implementation of this new instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report stresses that this new international agreement should secure a level playing field among all stakeholders.
in writing. i agree with the report. fishing is a very important activity, both within and outside areas of national jurisdiction. another important aspect is that the eu plays a key role in the global management of the seas and oceans and is responsible for adopting proactive policies for the protection of marine biodiversity worldwide. it is therefore essential to establish a new international legally binding instrument under the unclos on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, based on a decision by the un general assembly. the new legal framework will close the existing legal gap, ensure the conservation of marine biodiversity and the sustainable use of resources, and enable all operators at sea to coordinate their actions and consult each other.
in writing. - i voted for this report. on 19 june 2015, the un general assembly adopted a resolution on the development of an international legally binding instrument under the unclos on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. the main purpose of this report is to highlight the objectives of the resolution and to fill the gaps by extending the powers of global, regional or sectoral authorities to cover the impact of fishing on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the united nations convention on the law of the sea raises important issues relating to fisheries. this is important because more than 60% of the seas are areas outside national jurisdiction and are subject to international law. regulations under the un mandate are needed to ensure the sound and economic management of marine resources. this is crucial for sustainable fisheries in the long term. the existing provisions were drafted 30 years ago and do not take into account current trade needs and the latest conservation standards for marine and ocean biodiversity. the report highlights a very important aspect, without which it is difficult to imagine a coordinated policy for marine areas, namely sound fisheries. the new agreement provides for the use of all possible legal means in this case in order to better involve all interested parties. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to harmonise the animal breeding system, which will have a major impact on the european animal breeding sector. eu zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade in and facilitate imports of breeding animals and their genetic material in the eu, while ensuring that breeding programmes and the conservation of all genetic resources in europe are maintained. the production of animals for production, in particular those with valuable genetic characteristics, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the region in which those animals are produced, but is also one of the main factors contributing to food security in the union. the european commission wants to combine all the directives relating to zootechnical legislation covering different species into one single legal act this regulation , thus completing the creation of a common market in this field. i agree that it is urgently necessary to harmonise the animal breeding system, which would have a major impact on the european animal breeding sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the proposal for a regulation on zootechnical and genealogical requirements for trade in and imports into the european union of breeding animals and products of their genetic material. the european union (eu) zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade in and facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material within the european union, while ensuring that breeding programmes and the conservation of all genetic resources in europe are maintained. the production of productive animals, in particular those which have been identified as having valuable genetic characteristics, not only contributes to the economic and social development of the region in which those animals are produced, but is also one of the main factors for food security in the union. the european commission wanted to bring together all the directives relating to zootechnical legislation covering different species into a single legal act this regulation , thus completing the creation of a common market in this field. however, it should be stressed that the european commission's objective is not merely to consolidate and simplify legislation. it is in fact proposing to harmonise the animal breeding system, which will have a major impact on the european animal breeding sector. the rapporteur agrees with this general approach, but some aspects should be clarified or reassessed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. efforts to achieve competitiveness in the animal breeding sector should not lead to the disappearance of breeds with characteristics that are adapted to specific biophysical contexts.
in writing. i agree with the report. the new regulation will facilitate free trade and import of breeding animals and their genetic material and will ensure that breeding and conservation programmes for all genetic resources in europe are maintained. it should be noted that the new regulation addresses requirements for breeding animals and their genetic material, principles and mechanisms for the recognition of breed societies, breeding programmes, prohibitions of certain breeding methods in breeding programmes, trade, import and movement of breeding animals and their genetic material within or outside the european community. separate approval procedures for associations and selection programmes are also provided for. for reasons of legal clarity, it is important to ensure that other species are only included in this regulation by way of a joint decision. it is also essential that breeders are granted the right to access, on a non-discriminatory basis, all relevant services of the breeding programme.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the new regulation brings together all existing zootechnical legislation and provides a harmonised, structured approach to animal breeding, covering sheep, goat, pig and equine species.
in writing. ‒ mr president, as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i supported the report because it promotes free trade within the union and facilitates trade in livestock and biological material for breeding purposes. and, most importantly, it supports a programme to protect the genetic resources of all the breeds that live in europe. this is very important for the future of agriculture. the final report should take into account the specific local conditions which are specific to each member state. the rights of breed societies should also be supported and strengthened, as this will help them to operate in a complex market. the rapporteur's comment that this regulation should define more precisely a number of terms such as 'breeding', 'breeding programme' and 'protection programme' is also relevant. this will help to understand the new legislation better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to create a common asylum system. i agree that the eu needs to develop a common system for registering asylum applications, which would allow for a faster processing of asylum applications in the face of large flows of migrants. the eu must ensure new safe and legal pathways to the eu so that refugees do not risk their lives and avoid smugglers trying to enter eu countries. it is essential to improve the protection of migrant children, especially those travelling alone. migrants who are not eligible for asylum should only be returned to countries where they will be safe.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the situation of asylum in europe. the common european asylum system (ceas) comprises common rules governing a common asylum policy, a uniform status for asylum seekers and common asylum procedures across the union. the european parliament stresses that saving lives must be a top priority and that it is therefore of the utmost importance that search and rescue operations are adequately funded at eu and member state level. it also noted that the number of migrants arriving illegally by sea had increased, that the number of deaths at sea was rising dangerously and that better european responses remained necessary. parliament is of course calling for a clear distinction between persons smuggled into the european union and those brought to the eu for the purpose of trafficking in human beings, since the political responses must not only be properly integrated but also properly targeted. it notes that, in general, the criminal entry of migrants involves assisting a person to enter a member state illegally, whereas trafficking in human beings involves the recruitment, transport or reception of a person by violent, fraudulent or deceptive means with the aim of exploiting that person. the european parliament therefore considers that any holistic approach to migration must include measures to combat the activities of criminal networks involved in trafficking and smuggling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report presented comprehensive information on the current migration situation in the region.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of solidarity between eu countries, but i cannot support a mandatory quota-based eu asylum policy. it is clear that a coercive element in such a sensitive issue, which concerns a wide range of areas, including those falling within the competence of eu member states, from education to national security, will not be effective. eu member states facing unprecedented migratory pressures need to be helped, but solidarity should not be seen as simply relocating refugees. other measures are equally important and particularly needed, such as improving the management of the southern eu border, assisting in the centres of migration influx, contributing to the capacity of and relevant agreements with the third countries concerned to manage migration flows, establishing refugee centres in the eu's neighbourhood and addressing the direct causes of migration.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because of the situation in the mediterranean and the need to establish a holistic eu approach to migration. it is worth noting that a large number of recent legislative acts have been adopted on the issue of refugees, but the solution to the problem has not moved from the ground. one more resolution is not going to change the situation. the european union does not know what to do with refugees, but the community's borders remain open to illegal migrants and there is a lack of political will to act decisively. instead of preventing it, the eu institutions are only looking for new asylum opportunities. i do not think that another permanent union-wide resettlement scheme in the eu, which would be mandatory for member states and would involve the resettlement of a large number of refugees in relation to the total number of refugees seeking international protection in the union, will help to resolve the current situation. in particular, the eu's external borders must be closed, there must be no more illegal movement of migrants across the eu's internal borders and the quotas must be abolished as an unjustified decision.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the report covers many key aspects. the first is to avoid the tragedies of thousands of people dying on their way to europe. the text notes that saving lives must be a top priority and that it is therefore essential that search and rescue operations are adequately funded at union and member state level. the report also addresses the safe return of migrants whose asylum claims are not granted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. parliament welcomes the closer and more active involvement of national parliaments in european legislative processes in recent years. the commission's annual reports are somewhat sketchy, often lacking in a more detailed examination of the way in which the principles of subsidiarity and, in particular, proportionality are being applied in eu policy-making. moreover, the reasoned opinions received from the national parliaments differ considerably in the arguments put forward and in their form. the absence of a common model makes it more difficult to assess the basis on which national parliaments deliver opinions. these problems must be solved urgently.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the annual reports on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality for 2012-13. the european parliament welcomes the closer and more active involvement of national parliaments in european legislative processes in recent years, as it has increased awareness of the application of the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, in an interinstitutional context. notes, however, that further work is still needed in this context and suggests that the commission should first discuss each national parliament on an annual basis in order to strengthen the dialogue between the commission and the national parliaments; parliament also notes that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the basis for policy-making and that it is therefore important to assess at the beginning of the legislative process whether policy objectives can be better achieved at european level than through national or regional initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it provided comprehensive information about the activities of the main eu institutional bodies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the annual reports on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality for 2012-13. the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are at the heart of the european union's decision-making process. the exercise of eu competence should be based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the proper application of these principles enhances the protection of rights at both national and transnational levels. in this context, the controls on the application of the principle of subsidiarity should be strengthened, as should the powers of national parliaments in the development of eu legislation. in particular, it is necessary to facilitate greater involvement of the positions, perspectives and other proposals of national parliaments in the political dialogue. in addition, taking into account requests from national parliaments, the deadlines for consulting national parliaments should be extended for the purpose of checks to be agreed between national parliaments and the commission in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. it is worth noting that the annual reports produced by the commission are somewhat sketchy, often lacking in a more detailed examination of how the principles of subsidiarity and, in particular, proportionality are being respected in eu policy-making.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against this report. i believe that the document is well prepared it raises important issues of consultation with national parliaments, and makes valuable suggestions on improving the impact assessment of draft legislation, the green card, the introduction of a procedure to speed up the adoption of legislation, and so on. at the same time, i agree with the group's view that the report is not ambitious enough. it identifies objectives that have either already been achieved, such as the extension of the period of consultation with national parliaments from 8 to 12 weeks, or, in the case of impact assessments, are already being implemented. on the other hand, the proposed impact assessment reform, which would provide for a full impact assessment of a legislative act before its entry into force (instead of the current simplified assessment), would, in my view, significantly complicate and prolong the legislative process and would certainly not contribute to the objectives of better regulation. i therefore vote against, but i ask you to see this as a constructive criticism, a call to continue the work begun and to develop the theses of the report that we are pursuing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to simplify legislation, reduce the administrative burden of regulation and remove obstacles to growth and job creation. the refit programme is one of the key components of the commission's new better regulation strategy. it aims to establish a better legislative procedure, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. given the excessive levels of bureaucracy across the eu and the need to simplify legislation, better regulation should cover the culture of public administration at all eu levels, the implementation and application of union acts at the european union as well as at national, regional and local levels, in order to ensure good administration. i agree that the commission should give priority to the development of certain measures and focus more on the quality of legislative acts and better implementation of existing legislation rather than on the volume of legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the eu's regulatory quality and performance programme. firstly, the european parliament stresses that only greater transparency will make the eu more effective and increase civil society's confidence in the eu. in this context, welcomes the fact that the commission emphasises that dialogue with citizens, social partners and other economic and civil society stakeholders contributes to a transparent, well-oriented and coherent eu legislative process, and supports the commission's intention to show more clearly how it prepares proposals, such as legislative texts or communications. the commission should also be able to make a contribution to the development of the european union's external relations, in particular by providing the necessary financial support to the european union's external relations policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the commission has now proposed a coherent holistic approach to better law making that takes account of the entire policy cycle of law—making and requires targeted interaction among all the institutions.
in writing. i agree with the report. in particular, greater attention should be paid to better regulation, which should cover the culture of public administration at all levels of the european union, the implementation and application of union acts at the european union, national, regional and local levels. in order to ensure a transparent and coherent eu legislative process, dialogue with citizens, social partners and other economic and civil society stakeholders needs to be further promoted. in addition, regional and local authorities should be more involved in eu policy-making, especially at an early stage of legislative development. it should be noted that impact assessments need to be comprehensive in order to properly assess the impact of regulation on the economy, the social sphere, the environment and the fundamental rights of citizens. i believe that all eu institutions should develop a common methodology for impact assessments. in addition, more flexible rules should apply to smes and micro-enterprises should be given the possibility to be exempted from the requirements whenever possible, ensuring that the social, environmental and economic objectives of the proposed act are achieved in an equally effective manner.
in writing. - i disagreed with this report. the report lacks ambition and clarity. it also failed to properly separate the reduction of the administrative burden from the reduction of the regulatory burden.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve the regulation of the single market. improving the regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of all eu institutions. this is a shared responsibility to respect the fundamental principle of subsidiarity in deciding whether to act and which actions are best, if regulation is needed, and ultimately to ensure that the measures and obligations envisaged are simple and applied effectively and efficiently. i agree that a more deliberate approach to policy objectives, their response, their simple and effective implementation, the rapid and coordinated response to problems and the consistent review of legislation would be a great help in achieving the common objectives. i agree that the desire to improve the regulation of the single market does not mean that all regulation should be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the regulation of the single market, which is the common responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept on which the european union's approach to improving the regulation of the single market should be based. this is a shared responsibility to respect the fundamental principle of subsidiarity in deciding whether to act and which actions are best, if regulation is needed, and ultimately to ensure that the measures and obligations envisaged are simple and applied effectively and efficiently to achieve agreed policy objectives. good legislation is not achieved through a single step in the process, but through effective and efficient actions throughout the policy cycle. the transposition and implementation of the single market rules is of paramount importance to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. it is important to consider the implementation of legislation and secondary rules not as a separate element of the process but as a component of the overall effort to take advantage of the benefits of the single market. this is influenced not only by the decisions taken by member states in transposing legislation into national law, but also by the decisions taken in the early stages of policy-making on objectives and policy structure, and, no less importantly, by the way in which our acquis is reviewed and updated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. any new legislation needs to be based on thorough impact assessments and to be as technology-neutral and future-proof as possible to ensure better regulation. consultation processes need to be open, transparent, inclusive and accessible to smes and start-ups.
in writing. i agree with the communication on improving the regulation of the single market. in particular, in order to improve the functioning of the single market, it is necessary to properly assess the implementation of existing legislation. i believe that concrete indicators should be used throughout the policy cycle to measure the success of the implementation of legislation. refit proposals should be more transparent and targeted, quantifying the potential benefits and cost savings of each proposal. greater attention should be paid to consultation of stakeholders. consultation should be a continuous process throughout the legislative cycle and should be as broad as possible. it should be noted that the common regulatory burden often presents obstacles for single market participants, in particular smes. it is therefore essential to identify and remove barriers to entry in a timely manner and to ensure fair competition for all market participants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sought to improve the regulation of the single market. however, this intention was not reflected in the text. the rapporteur sought to introduce better regulation where it was not needed. the report is incomplete, as shown by the votes: 387 votes in favour, 293 against.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to integrate the eu dimension more and more into school curricula. currently, citizens do not have much knowledge of the eu and its institutions: 44% of citizens do not agree with the statement 'i understand how the eu works'. citizens feel alienated from or increasingly repulsed by the european political project, their euroscepticism is growing and they consider the union's decision-making processes to be undemocratic. i agree that the situation could be remedied if citizens were better informed about the project of european integration, encouraged to participate in it and actively interested in it. one of the best ways to do this is to increase the eu dimension in school curricula, as this would help to overcome euroscepticism and prepare citizens to live and work in an increasingly complex globalised world. many citizens have limited knowledge of the eu, and eu-related issues should be more prominently featured in textbooks.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with teaching and education in schools in the european union (eu). the eu is currently facing unprecedented challenges. in recent years, the eu has experienced a major economic and financial crisis. its social and political consequences have led to mistrust of the institutions and the common values of the union, including the notion of eu identity. in this context, it seems more important than ever to promote dialogue on the eu in schools, associations and public spaces, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the value and importance of the european integration process. currently, citizens do not have much knowledge about the workings of the eu and its institutions: according to a eurobarometer survey conducted in spring 2014, 44% of citizens do not agree with the statement 'i understand how the eu works'. with this in mind, it is not surprising that citizens feel increasingly alienated or repelled by the european political project, that their euroscepticism is growing and that they consider the union's decision-making processes to be undemocratic. the situation could be remedied if citizens were better informed about the project of european integration, encouraged to participate in it and actively interested in it. one of the best ways to do this is to increase the eu dimension in school curricula, as this would help to overcome euroscepticism and prepare citizens to live and work in an increasingly complex globalised world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is increasingly important for students to gain an understanding of the mechanisms of the european construct in which they live and the growing impact of the european union in their lives.
in writing. ‒ a more nuanced, engaging, thoughtful teaching of the european union, its principles of operation, its values and its history in european union schools is fully in line with the educational objectives and the need to deepen knowledge of each other's histories and of the eu. the european parliament calls for better use of the eu instruments available and for closer cooperation at member state level, promoting links between educational institutions, educators and learners in different eu countries. lessons about the eu, through technical, financial, mobility and innovation opportunities, can be one of the most interesting subjects and the most attractive way to develop critical thinking and active citizenship from an early age.
in writing. education must remain within the competence of each member state. social and economic conditions vary from one country to another, and national authorities have a crucial role to play in the definition of educational programmes. only they can properly assess the need for improvements in the content of school education and in the initial training of teachers. it is important to encourage citizens to learn not only about the eu, but also to give priority to their own country's history. only when they have acquired sufficient knowledge can they properly understand the process of european construction. in this context, it is important to promote dialogue on the eu in schools, associations and public spaces, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the value and importance of the european integration process. i believe that the commission must continue to promote the mobility of education representatives and actively disseminate information to key stakeholders and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains many good ideas on how to improve the organisation of education in schools. the report stresses the need to develop critical thinking and the benefits of mobility for young people's understanding of the world and different cultures. it also focuses on language learning as a means of communicating knowledge about europe.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to promote mobility. the unemployment rate in 2014 was still 10.2%, despite a slow recovery; the eu-wide youth unemployment rate is currently 22.1%, with only 51% of people aged 55-64 in employment and a gender gap in employment levels of 13.6 percentage points for older workers. however, there is still a gap between the demand for and the supply of skills in the labour market. erasmus and other mobility programmes in the field of education and training have contributed to the process of european integration, promoted the notion of european citizenship, provided the conditions for developing individual skills and critical thinking in learners and encouraged the learning of new languages. i agree with the need to increase and improve the vocational training opportunities for students, to adopt common and complementary european social fund and erasmus+ instruments to reinforce and coordinate each other in order to avoid duplication. it is necessary to make mobility a means of creating employment opportunities and to achieve recognition of studies and qualifications and professional experience, including those acquired in other countries through mobility programmes, etc.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the erasmus+ programme. the programme is designed to replace various earlier programmes. the adoption of this programme has made significant progress in defining the concept of european mobility in higher education within the single european area. in this area, it is clear that the differences in academic and training concepts, the organisation and management of scientific institutions, the relationship between the education system and the business world, are making it increasingly difficult, expensive and difficult to develop mobility between different european countries and regions. more specifically, there are still clear difficulties in properly implementing the procedures for the recognition of study credits and work experience in different countries. the europass and ecvet programmes are well developed in theory, but still face difficulties, not always acceptable, in their progressive adoption and practical implementation. due to the different economic and social realities in the different member states, it is necessary to assess without delay the possibility of re-introducing this vocational training system throughout europe. the large disparities in unemployment rates between the different regions of europe are in themselves a problem that needs to be addressed appropriately and in a variety of ways.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, more attention should be paid to vocational training and education, giving students more opportunities and incentives for vocational training. the statute of the european semester should be drawn up. the dual training approach should be more widely applied. the sustainable integration of vocational training students into the labour market and their participation in international mobility programmes must be facilitated. it is also essential to identify common european social fund and erasmus+ instruments and to increase economic resources. i believe that the documents for the programmes related to erasmus+ should be drawn up in the official languages used in european school systems. it is also essential to establish a european network of laboratories and incubators.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sends a very clear message that the european commission must continue to make this programme more effective by focusing more on vocational training and on ensuring integration into the labour market. the communication also calls for the removal of various obstacles to the participation of young people in programmes promoting mobility, as mobility often provides employment opportunities. equally important is the recognition of education, especially where qualifications and professional experience are acquired through participation in mobility programmes. the commission is encouraged to take an active role in addressing this problem by providing young people with the opportunity to provide evidence of their qualifications.
in writing. - i supported the report because it meets the expectations of young people. the erasmus+ programme will undoubtedly enhance the concept of mobility in the european higher education area. the report highlights very important problems that require urgent solutions. the deficit in vocational training programmes is shown. the difficulties encountered in the recognition and accreditation of study and traineeship processes in the member states are highlighted. for these reasons, the idea of activating various forms of vocational training throughout europe should be supported, with the aim of reducing unemployment through better and more accurate selection of educational profiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by sylvie goulard on the eu role in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies, adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. stabilisation of the economic and monetary system is on the agenda and we need global rules and coordination on a broader scale to overcome crises and become more resilient as a union. therefore, i strongly support enhanced international regulatory cooperation, as well as a more proactive role of the eu in all related processes. moreover, it is crucial to make the eu heard with its own voice at the global scale and seek full membership at of international economic and financial institutions where this has not yet been granted and is in our interest. such measures as the european code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability will strengthen the unity and positions of the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to help answer the following questions: who makes the decisions? who sets the rules governing the activities of the financial sector? are parliaments and governments, influenced by experts and private interests, still the ones with the final say? how do the eu and the euro area defend their strategic interests? i agree that, given the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and employment, global multilateral cooperation should be reconsidered, with the eu and the euro area increasing in importance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the role of the eu in the work of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. the free movement of capital makes the stability of the financial system, which has a decisive impact on investment and economic growth, dependent on the ability to develop and enforce standards and codes of conduct at the supranational level. the necessary change of level cannot lead to a reduction in responsibility and undermine democracy. in particular, the role of national parliaments and the european parliament cannot be reduced to that of mere fact-finding bodies. the eu and the euro area must also be able to defend their strategic interests. however, the eu's representation in these organisations is at least uncontrolled. this is regrettable given the significant impact on financial stability, but in particular on economic growth and employment. progress should be made pragmatically, given that the eu's financial strength remains strong, but its relative demographic weight is declining globally. the european union could make a useful contribution to the development of a more balanced multilateral cooperation on economic and financial matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the document stresses the need for enhanced international regulatory cooperation, with strong ep involvement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the work of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. it reflects the green group's key priorities in this area: transparency, the need for cooperation and accountability between international institutions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to promote small-scale coastal fishing in areas dependent on fishing. coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the eu, providing high employment and being socially and environmentally sustainable. the 2013 cfp regulation emphasises the importance of economic growth in coastal areas. it provides preferential access for small-scale and traditional fishermen in the 12 nautical mile zone, the most sensitive area of eu waters. in order to facilitate the development of innovation, recognised shortcomings such as insufficient investment in science, lack of adequate data on the seas and oceans, insufficient funding, lack of private-public cooperation, etc., need to be addressed. in recent years, more has been invested in marine and ocean monitoring systems, but this is still not enough. the main problem is that the existing data cannot be used. the procedure for requesting and obtaining the appropriate authorisation to use data alone is time-consuming and requires additional resources. the main challenges facing the sector, namely the decline in employment and profitability in the sector and the fight against the displacement of the fisheries sector in developing regions, must therefore be addressed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because inshore fishing is an extremely important form of fishing in the countries of the european union (eu). it is particularly important because it provides high employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. coastal fisheries are classified and defined differently in different member states (coastal, traditional or non-industrial fisheries, etc.). in most coastal and island areas, inshore fishing is a traditional form of fishing that influences the way of life and is an important source of livelihood. fisheries dependent areas need specific measures and support to enable them to grow and develop. the eu flagship initiative 'innovation union' is crucial for the development of the blue economy. with a budget of around eur 79 billion, horizon 2020 is the largest research and innovation programme. in addition, funding from the eu investment and structural funds is allocated to innovation. in order to facilitate the development of innovation, recognised shortcomings such as insufficient investment in science, lack of adequate data on the seas and oceans, insufficient funding, lack of private-public cooperation, etc., need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the document calls on the commission and on member states to gradually increase the quotas allocated to non-industrial fisheries, in order to boost socially and sustainable forms of fishing.
in writing. - i voted for this report. coastal fishing is an extremely important form of fishing, but it is classified and defined differently in different member states. the coastal fisheries have been facing a number of problems this year and the procedure for amending the existing legislation had to be launched in order to protect the coastal fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce new rules for the application of the external aspects of the cfp, including fisheries agreements. in the 1980s, relatively few countries engaged in long-distance fishing far from their coastal waters (the eu, the soviet union, japan, the usa, and a few others on a smaller scale). now, three decades later, the situation has changed radically and there is intense competition for most species in all ocean regions. i agree that the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher rather than lower standards. it is necessary to achieve greater transparency in fishing activities, to apply a regional approach to fisheries management, to make serious political efforts by flag states and coastal states to combat iuu fishing and to improve fish supply in order to feed women in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the common agricultural policy (cap), including fisheries agreements. in the 1980s, when the cfp was just beginning, there were relatively few countries that engaged in long-distance fishing far from their coastal waters (the eu, the soviet union, japan, the usa, and a few others on a smaller scale). now, three decades later, the situation has changed radically and there is intense competition for most species in all ocean regions. among the increasingly important players are china, korea and taiwan, all of which have adopted aggressive policies to take advantage of rapidly dwindling resources. to varying degrees, these shipyards tend to operate with less stringent environmental, safety and social standards and benefit from high subsidies and often lower levels of taxation. many of these long-distance fishing countries fail to fulfil their obligations as flag, port and market states or even respect fundamental human rights, all of which give them a competitive economic advantage over eu vessels. it is clear that the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher rather than lower standards. the eu is still the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets flying its flag and is often ranked among the top three fishing operators in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu’s best strategy for promoting sustainable fisheries is to enhance social and environmental standards, to better control its own external fleet and to use the eu’s leadership on the international scene to improve fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the communication sends an unambiguous message that the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries requires the use of the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher, not lower, standards. this is also ensured by encouraging third countries, starting with those with which the eu negotiates sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, to develop a common regulatory framework for eu and non-eu entities in the fisheries, processing and marketing sectors. the report also calls on the commission to play an active role in promoting the idea that third countries publish the terms of agreements they sign with other states or private entities, including the identity, activities and catch data of vessels authorised to fish. this would ensure transparency and increase competition in the environmental aspects of fishing.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, all experts agree that, if escalated further, the nagorno-karabakh conflict could certainly become far more lethal and ruthless than it was two decades ago. those who ordered the recent escalations cannot hide from history, an unprecedented arms race by both sides in a conflict that has for a number of years been boosted by one major arms supplier: russia. blood money: billions of dollars is pouring into the russian budget. the vice-prime minister of russia has recently said the following about the russian arms supplies: ‘everything is according to contracts. both countries are strategic partners to us.’ for me, the question is what we, as the eu, should do in order to deal with the so-called ‘frozen conflict’ and the destructive dominance of russia in the region. have we, as the eu, ever asked for our legitimate place at the negotiating table that is supposed to deal with the conflict? indeed, the argument from 1994, when the minsk group was set up and the eu was not considered a global player and mediator, is no longer valid. let us go back to the negotiating table as a global player, let us play a role as a major negotiator and mediator in this conflict, and let us prove that the eastern partnership goals to support peace and stability next door are valid.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. madam president, i would like to ask about the problems encountered in the implementation of the commitments of the member states. lithuanian officials visited refugee camps in greece and italy, but hardly anyone wanted to go to lithuania. they were dominated by germany, the scandinavian countries, but not by the baltic countries at all. do you think that the refugees should be transported by force?
almost a month has passed since the governing council meeting, and the results are too brief to summarise, but sufficient to assess trends. the eu-turkey agreement has returned several hundred irregular migrants and several dozen syrian war refugees who have arrived legally in the eu from turkey. riots on the greek-macedonian border, the czech republic's principled stance against any migrant distribution quotas. the trends are not good, and if we have succeeded in limiting the growth of the problem, the problem itself is not being solved. we need to take much more decisive action. the external borders of the european union must be closed. there must be no illegal movement of migrants across the internal borders of the european union and quotas must be abolished as an unjustified decision. so that the problems of illegal migration in europe do not become a catalyst for economic problems, i would urge that attention be paid, that more attention be paid, to the plan of the president of the european commission, mr juncker, and that the institutions of the european union and the member states take concrete decisions on its implementation much sooner, because another economic crisis is by no means what we need most in this situation. and although the commission's intention to give member states more flexibility on vat rates is not part of this plan, i welcome this proposal, as stimulating consumption can be one of the effective measures against economic slowdown.
in writing. two crises - the refugee crisis and the agricultural crisis - were discussed in the council. i think they both have some connections. first, we must address the living conditions of refugees in temporary camps, which are often inhumane. on the other hand, we have a dairy surplus. europe has been buying butter and milk powder through intervention for some time now, and i think they could reach the camps. this would be a win-win for everyone, first of all, to ensure that the people in the camps have milk products, and secondly, to address the problem of surplus. i welcome the european commission's decision to provide milk to syrian children, but i do not agree with the fact that 30 million from the farmers' fund is being used to implement this programme. this would not be possible for the supply of dairy products to refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf to help sweden support the reintegration of workers made redundant in 5 companies producing trailers. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. a total of eur 1 793 710 is requested from the egf for sweden for the redundancies of 500 workers. the redundancies were due to the changes that have taken place in the european commercial vehicle sector, in particular the truck industry, in recent years, in particular the emergence of new asian truck manufacturers, as well as the difficulty of the truck industry to adapt by increasing efficiency and reducing costs. the package of services will include a range of job search activities and counselling, motivation and health measures, and education and training.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to grant support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the company 'volvo trucks'. on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to support sweden in supporting the reintegration of workers made redundant by five enterprises. this is the second application to be considered in the context of the 2016 budget and the 22nd in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector, which concerns 500 redundancies. in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, the commission has concluded that this application fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. the swedish authorities argue that the redundancies were due to the changes that have taken place in the european commercial vehicle sector, and in particular the truck industry, in recent years, in particular the emergence of new asian truck manufacturers, as well as the difficulty of the truck industry to adapt by increasing efficiency and reducing costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to grant support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the company volvo trucks. the aid will affect 500 redundant workers in five companies and help them to return to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf. it concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to finance technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information, to create a knowledge base interface and to provide advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). in line with the commission's proposal, the amount requested for 2016 should be used to finance the following activities: in particular, monitoring and data collection, i.e. the commission will collect data on applications received, payments made and support granted, as well as on measures proposed and implemented. these data will be published on the website and collected in accordance with the relevant format requirements for presentation in the biennial report in 2017. secondly, it will increase the general awareness of the egf and promote its visibility. thirdly, the commission is continuing its work to establish standard procedures for the submission and administration of egf applications. fourth, administrative and technical support will be provided, i.e. the egf expert group on personnel relations, composed of one member from each member state, will hold two meetings (at the end of 2016 and in the first half of 2017). in addition, in order to promote networking between member states, the commission will organise two workshops involving the authorities responsible for the implementation of the egf and the social partners. they will be held, as far as possible, at approximately the same time as the expert group meetings and will focus on issues related to the practical implementation of the egf regulation at local level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i consider to be positive that the commission intends to invest eur 70 000 of the available budget under the technical assistance in particular on improving the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of egf support on individual participants.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the amount requested should be used to finance the following activities: monitoring and data collection, information, development of a knowledge base (application programmes) interface, administrative and technical support, seminars and translation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve amendments to the eu budget for 2016 providing for €100 million in humanitarian aid for refugees in eu countries. the amendments also propose to strengthen the european counter-terrorism centre and to allocate eur 2 million for job creation. in response to the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe and the exceptional humanitarian situation in some eu countries, the european commission proposed on 2 march 2016 the creation of a €700 million emergency fund. eur 100 million in humanitarian aid would be the first tranche of the fund's support and would help provide food, healthcare, housing, water, sanitation, hygiene and education services to refugees
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) welcomes the commission's proposal to create an eu budget line to fund urgent support in the european union more quickly and more efficiently by extending the range of financial instruments already available to respond to eu emergencies. however, the libe committee was not convinced by the european commission's proposed decision to set up a new emergency humanitarian aid mechanism immediately. it seems wholly inappropriate to exclude one of the two legislative bodies from the legislative process in the case of the creation of a new fund to provide humanitarian aid in the union. the committee regrets that the urgency situation has arisen from the lack of a coherent strategy and vision for a european solution to the migration crisis and insists that the eu should not make permanent use of budgetary procedures, such as the flexibility instrument, to finance the union's migration policy. however, the libe committee welcomes the fact that the new instrument will allow the union to act in a spirit of solidarity and to meet the basic needs of people affected by disasters in the union territory. the situation of migrants and asylum seekers is in fact deteriorating, especially in greece, whose economic situation is very difficult and requires a common initiative at european level. the libe committee hopes that the new measure will minimise the economic impact in the affected member states where an emergency situation related to the migration crisis has occurred or will occur, in particular in greece's neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it reflects the realities of today and shows that europe is aware of the need to respond to those realities. the communication essentially proposes to create emergency aid mechanisms to deal with exceptional humanitarian crises. the proposed increase in the staff of the europol european counter-terrorism centre, which is necessary to contain and resolve the situation, is also supported.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on this report to appoint the slovenian candidate, mr sam jereba, as a member of the court of auditors. until now, samo jereb has been deputy chairman of the audit chamber of the republic of slovenia. the scope of work of this candidate is not limited and covers all jurisdictions of the slovenian chamber of auditors and all types of audits, i.e. financial audit, regularity/compliance audit or performance audit. at the same time, it directly supervised and controlled half of the entire work of the slovenian court of auditors. in particular, he was responsible for closely monitoring the implementation of the audit of the establishment and the orderly and efficient operation of the bank asset management company, as well as the audit of the performance of the largest investments in recent years (the construction of unit 6 of the šoštanje thermal power plant) in terms of the impact on the profits or losses and cash flows of the holding slovenske elektrarne (the largest electricity production organisation in slovenia) and the slovenian state-controlled company.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint the slovenian candidate, mr jereba, as a member of the court of auditors. he is currently vice-president of the audit chamber of the republic of slovenia, has worked as chief state auditor, and holds a bachelor's degree in economics (accounting and economics) from the university of ljubljana.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of mikhail kozlov as a member of the court of auditors. mihails kozlovs is a qualified and motivated professional with 15 years of extensive experience in eu and national economic policy-making, the eu budget, public finance, public governance, institutional relations, development banking, diplomacy, representation, communication, as well as people, change and project management, using a wide network at all levels in the eu institutions, complemented by a prestigious master's degree in business management.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint the latvian candidate, mr mihailas kozlovs, as a member of the court of auditors. this candidate is an independent, qualified and motivated professional with 15 years of extensive experience in eu and national economic policy-making, the eu budget, public finance, public governance, institutional relations, development banking, diplomacy, representation, communication, as well as people, change and project management, drawing on a wide network at all levels within the eu institutions. this experience is complemented by a prestigious master of business administration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint the latvian candidate, mr mihailas kozlovs, as a member of the court of auditors. the expert is an independent, qualified and motivated professional with 15 years of extensive experience in eu and national economic policy-making, the eu budget, public finance, public governance, institutional relations, development banking, diplomacy, representation, communication, and people, change and project management. michael has a master's degree in business administration from city university, london.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. jan gregor was actively involved in the eu accession negotiations from the very beginning, checking national legislation and its conformity with eu law, negotiating many chapters of the negotiations and, until the very last meeting, the european summit between the czech and danish prime ministers in copenhagen in 2002 during the danish presidency.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report for the czech candidate, mr jan gregor, to be appointed a member of the court of auditors. this candidate believes that the structure of the liaison committee already provides a solid basis for the court's cooperation with the national supreme audit institutions. this cooperation shall include annual meetings and various working groups, networks and working groups established to address specific issues of common interest. jan gregor emphasises that this framework is flexible enough to be used to address any relevant issues. the candidate emphasises that the focus should be on continuing regular cooperation with the european parliament's committees, in particular the committee on budgetary control, mainly in the areas of annual audit planning and annual reports. this area is adequately covered and coordinated by the relatively new post of member of the court of auditors responsible for institutional relations. at the same time, there is scope for improvements to enhance cooperation with the european parliament's sectoral committees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted on this report to appoint jan gregor, the czech candidate, as a member of the court of auditors. he is currently deputy chairman of the supervisory board of the czech and moravian guarantee and development bank and deputy chairman of the supervisory board of the czech export bank. he holds a bachelor's degree in international trade from the university of economics in prague.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of ladislav balk as a member of the court of auditors. mr ladislav balko became a member of the european court of auditors on 7 may 2010. member of the college iv until 10 january 2014. dr l. balko was responsible for the audit assurance in the areas of research and other internal policies, as well as for the audit of activities in the same areas. in april 2012, he became a college iv alternate member in the cead college and on 1 february 2013 a college iv alternate member in the administrative committee. he was also a member of the internal audit committee from 12 february 2012 and chaired that committee from 24 april 2013 to 28 february 2014.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on this report to appoint ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors from slovakia. he became a member of the european court of auditors on 7 may 2010. dr l. balko was responsible for the audit assurance in the areas of research and other internal policies, as well as for the audit of activities in the same areas. on 1 february 2014 he was appointed as a member of college ii (structural, transport and energy policies) and is also the rapporteur for the economic, social and territorial cohesion section and responsible for the audit of the gni and the audit of the activities in the field of regional policy and the structural funds. he is a member representing college ii in the cead college and has also been a rapporteur for several performance audits. during his term of office, mr balko has gained a great deal of experience and knowledge of the work of the european court of auditors and the reporting system under which it operates. it is strongly committed to leveraging all this knowledge and experience in the further work of the european court of auditors, in the implementation of its annual and multiannual strategic documents up to 2017 and beyond, in the provision of an even more results-oriented annual report that takes into account the needs of our key stakeholders, in particular the european parliament, as well as in the provision of timely and timely special reports that add value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint the slovak candidate, ladislav balko, as a member of the court of auditors. he graduated from the faculty of law at the j. a. komensky university in bratislava. he subsequently obtained a doctorate in law and became a lecturer in finance and commercial law. he became a member of the european court of auditors on 7 may 2010. member of the college iv until 10 january 2014. dr l. balko was responsible for the audit assurance in the areas of research and other internal policies, as well as for the audit of activities in the same areas.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. janusz wojciechowski was president of the supreme audit institution, the constitutional state audit body that monitors the state budget and other areas of state activity, from 1995 to 2001, after being elected by the polish parliament for a six-year term.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint janusz wojciechowski, a polish candidate, as a member of the court of auditors. from 1995 to 2001, he was president of the supreme audit institution (polish: nik), the constitutional state audit body that monitors the state budget and other areas of state activity, after being elected by the polish parliament for a six-year term. during his term of office, mr wojciechowski presented six audit reports on the implementation of the state budget to the polish parliament and answered questions from members of parliament. as chairman of nik, he was also responsible for the preparation and management of nik's own budget. this candidate has worked on issues relating to the eu budget since 2004 both as a member of the european parliament and, in particular, as vice-chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors because i believe that the candidate is enough competent to carry on duties of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to appoint janusz wojciechowski, a polish candidate, as a member of the court of auditors. he's a lawyer, former judge, current attorney. he obtained a master's degree in law from the faculty of law and administration of the university of lodz. januszas is currently a member of the european parliament, vice-chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament states that the draft commission implementing regulation on the renewal of the active substance glyphosate does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide that kills all weeds. the concerns about the harmful effects of this substance on human health, including the possibility of cancer, have not been allayed. parliament called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to withdraw the extension of the approval of glyphosate. instead of renewing the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for an unlimited period of 15 years, the european commission should rely on an independent assessment of the effects of this chemical and make public the data from the european food safety authority used for the assessment of glyphosate. it is necessary to ensure that the classification of glyphosate is revised in the light of scientific evidence of carcinogenicity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament takes the view that the draft commission implementing regulation on the renewal of the active substance glyphosate does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. the european parliament asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee. parliament also calls on the commission not to extend the approval of glyphosate and to set a deadline for the establishment of a clear list of co-formulants that are not allowed to be used in plant protection products. it also calls on the commission to ensure urgently that the classification of glyphosate is reviewed on the basis of scientific evidence of carcinogenicity and that the potential endocrine disrupting properties are reviewed on the basis of scientific horizontal criteria for endocrine disrupting chemicals. in addition, the commission and efsa, taking into account the overriding public interest in disclosure, should publish without delay all the scientific evidence on which the favourable classification of glyphosate and the proposal for renewal of the approval were based. in addition, the commission should empower its food and veterinary office to test and monitor glyphosate residues in food and drink produced in the eu and in imported production.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate because the document had many paragraphs which have to be reviewed.
in writing. the expiry date of the active substance glyphosate should not be extended. in particular, no scientific evidence has been provided that the substance does not present any unacceptable risk to human health, animal health or the environment. it should be noted that glyphosate is the main active ingredient used in many commercial herbicides. it is therefore essential that proper studies are carried out on its possible adverse effects on plants, animals and humans. it is of particular concern that the increase in glyphosate levels in the food chain and in the organisms themselves, both in animals and in humans, is increasing. in view of this, member states should restrict or prohibit the sale of glyphosate to non-professional users. i think that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing regulation and submit a new draft to the committee.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which aims to significantly tighten the use of glyphosate in the european union. i agree with the view expressed by members of parliament that member states must in particular restrict or prohibit the sale of glyphosate to non-professional users, prohibit its consumption before harvesting and prohibit its spraying near parks, playgrounds. importantly, the report notes the need for training to provide information on the safer use of glyphosate. alternative means could be provided during the training. i would hope that the european commission will take parliament's position into account and not extend the authorisation of glyphosate for a full 15 year period. this time limit must be considerably shorter and used for the search for alternatives, research and education.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of sandra kalniete’s well-written report. since the world is becoming more interconnected and globalised the european union nowadays is facing new challenges and threats. we have to look for appropriate solutions and responses to these challenges, as well as for the allocation of necessary resources. the eu and its member states should step up their defence capabilities, while not forgetting about our partners. cooperation with nato and other global and regional actors in solving global threats and challenges is a key to success. furthermore, i support a call for a swift and full implementation of the fifth pillar of the european energy union and believe that it is in the strategic interest of the eu to endow the commission with a prerogative to co-negotiate and co-sign contracts on energy supplies with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on eu foreign policy. stabilising europe's neighbourhood, respecting the eu's enlargement and integration commitments, and devoting 2% of eu countries' gdp to defence are among the key recommendations of the european parliament for the global eu strategy being prepared by eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the eu's position in a changing global environment. the european parliament therefore considers that in order to be a more effective and credible global actor, the eu should assume greater responsibility and focus on removing the security vacuum in the immediate and wider neighbourhood and creating conditions of stability and prosperity based on the rule of law and respect for human rights, which necessarily implies addressing the root causes of the current wars and conflicts, migration flows and refugee crisis. he also believes that the eu should take more diplomatic action to de-escalate the situation, especially in the southern neighbourhood. parliament considered that, in order to build stability and peace and promote human security, the rule of law and respect for human rights and democratisation, the eu should fulfil its commitments to development and integration, based on policies that foster economic growth and social inclusion, and continue to cooperate with very closely associated countries in the context of the newly revised european neighbourhood policy (enp). the european parliament considers that the involvement of multilateral diplomacy, coordinated and led by the high representative and the vice-presidents, is a crucial tool for resolving conflicts and managing crises in neighbourhood and globally. it is therefore necessary to provide for a more strategic direction, to ensure coherence and positive synergies between external action policy and internal policy, which are increasingly interlinked at eu level, between member states and between the eeas and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i support a further deepening of the efficient governance of global common domains such as sea, air, space and cyberspace.
in writing. further military integration is not the way to deal with existing and emerging problems. i do not think it is appropriate to create european intelligence and eu military headquarters, to improve european intelligence exchanges and to create a truly european intelligence and forecasting capability with an appropriate oversight mechanism. it should be noted that the creation of a common defence force and the formulation of a common defence policy are an attempt to move towards a european defence union and ultimately to create a european army. there are doubts whether the eu's military build-up will not infringe the sovereign rights of the member states and whether it will help to strengthen the eu's role as a global actor. it should be noted that defence issues are discussed at national level or on the basis of membership of the north atlantic alliance. therefore, member states cannot be required to increase defence spending and capabilities and to take greater responsibility for building the urgently needed eu capabilities and contributing to the eu's strategic autonomy.
in writing. - i couldn't agree to a report that wasn't well-prepared. it remains unclear how the different areas of external policy should be integrated. the question of how the comprehensive approach should be implemented therefore remains unanswered. it also lacks new and clear ideas, even in the field of defence. what has already been decided or agreed last year is often repeated.
in writing. – the european parliament stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, on the basis of common shared values as stated in the existing partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan. the european parliament also reiterates the eu’s strong interest in a prosperous, peaceful, democratic, stable, and inclusive central asia that functions as an economically and environmentally sustainable region, as stated in the strategy of 2007.
in writing. – the european parliament in its report stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, on the basis of common shared values as stated in the existing partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan and in the agreement – albeit not yet in force – with turkmenistan. parliament points out that the strategic approach adopted to date to shaping relations with central asian countries has demonstrated only limited viability and success. finally, parliament stresses that respect for human rights and democracy must be at the core of the eu strategy vis-à-vis the scope of cooperation envisaged in the pcas, entailing the application of the human rights and democracy clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries, on the basis of common shared values as stated in the existing partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan and in the agreement – albeit not yet in force – with turkmenistan.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of strengthening the role and visibility of the eu in the central asia region. this region has a potential to become a transit gate between europe and asia. the eu is able and willing to do more to help the countries address the challenges and use the opportunities, by building closer cooperation to foster a socio-economic development in the region and respect for universal values, democracy and human rights. the eu and the member states should put more emphasis on professional training and education, providing opportunities for students, youngsters and young professionals to learn, study and be trained in the european higher education institutions, organisations and companies, and provide technical support for education sectors in the region. persistent corruption must be addressed; it is one of the main impediments discouraging credible foreign investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia. central asia is a region of strategic importance. it is therefore essential to continue to strengthen and promote high-quality and stronger political, diplomatic and trade relations with all central asian countries. relations based on the principles of responsibility and autonomy should be maintained in order to achieve a democratic, stable, economically and environmentally sustainable and prosperous central asia. particular attention shall be paid to strengthening trade and energy links between the eu and the central asian countries and to enhancing cooperation on security and stability issues, including sustainable management of natural resources. i think that kyrgyzstan should be covered by the gsp+ regime. such requests should also be made by tajikistan and uzbekistan.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it stresses the need to strengthen regional cooperation with asian countries to address common challenges. the report focuses on the development of democracy, respect for human rights, youth education and sustainable growth. in this respect, the report is comprehensive and well-written, and it would be difficult not to agree with it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because the strategy for central asia needs to be revised to bring it into line with contemporary issues and bilateral relations. the european union should take account of the growing importance of this region, in particular its economic potential. the report stresses in particular the need for eu involvement in social affairs, in particular by helping to combat poverty, which is the biggest problem in central asia. such decisions are worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution because of the zika outbreak. zika virus is a new mosquito-borne virus whose largest outbreak has been reported in brazil, particularly in the northeast of brazil. according to the evaluation of the european centre for disease prevention and control, as there is no treatment and no vaccine for this disease, protection is currently based on personal protective equipment. it is therefore essential to develop communication plans, adapting them to the most appropriate scale, and to raise awareness among the population and encourage appropriate behaviour to prevent mosquito bites. the commission has decided to allocate eur 10 million for scientific research into the zika virus. i support calls on the commission to ensure that, where eu public funds are used for research, the results of that research are not subject to intellectual property rights and that patients are guaranteed affordable products produced using the results of that research. the commission should propose specific measures for the regions of europe where zika virus is already present, in order to prevent all transmission routes in those regions and to provide support to the infected persons.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the zika outbreak. zika virus is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected aedes mosquitoes, and in tropical regions, most commonly through the bite of aedes aegypti mosquitoes, the same species of mosquitoes that spread dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. according to an assessment by the european centre for disease prevention and control, in the absence of a treatment and vaccine for the disease, and because mosquitoes that spread the virus bite both indoors and outdoors, mainly during the day, the current protection is based on personal protective measures, such as wearing permethrin-treated long sleeves and long trousers (especially at the time when mosquitoes that spread zika virus are most active) and sleeping or resting in mosquito-net rooms or rooms with air-conditioning, or using mosquito nets. parliament called on the commission to draw up an action plan to stop the spread of the virus in europe and to assist member states and third countries in combating the epidemic in the regions where the outbreak is most intense (in particular the caribbean, central america and south america). parliament called on the member states to increase the knowledge of doctors and clinics specialising in the treatment of travellers about the evolution of the zika virus epidemic and the control of transmission of the infection by the authorities in the affected areas, so that they could include zika virus infection in the differential diagnosis of the population and travellers from those areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the document. it discussed possible future measures which should be taken in order to develop diagnostic tests, vaccine, and treatment for the disease.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the expected outbreak of a mosquito-borne zika virus infection is a public health concern at international level. the virus is spreading very fast and has already reached europe. urgent action is therefore urgently needed, as the zika virus is more dangerous than initially thought. an infection of global concern is particularly dangerous to pregnant women. in view of the threat posed by this virus, communication plans should be developed to be as broadly applicable as possible and to raise awareness among the general public. the commission should develop an action plan to stop the spread of the virus in europe and assist member states and third countries in combating the epidemic in the regions where the outbreak is most severe. i support the commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million for scientific studies on zika virus, with particular attention to cases of severe congenital brain injury throughout latin america and their possible link to zika virus infection.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it demonstrates clearly and unequivocally the need to combat the zika virus. the fight against the virus can be achieved in several steps: first, by investing in research and ensuring that the results are easily accessible; second, by providing people with adequate information on the precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of the virus; and third, by ensuring that people who are infected are properly treated and cared for.
in writing. ‒ madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the zika outbreak because the situation requires decisive action by the european union. cases of the virus have already been reported in some european countries. unfortunately, according to the authorities involved, there is as yet no treatment or vaccine to protect against the infection, especially in children. the resolution rightly calls for the current situation to be taken into account and for the focus to be on preventive measures to prevent the spread of mosquito bites. the european commission should therefore provide even more financial support to countries at risk of mosquito invasion in order to protect european citizens from the threat in the best possible way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on poland to respect democracy and the rule of law. i agree that the polish authorities must respect the rule of law and ensure the power of the country's constitutional court to guarantee the supremacy of the constitution in the legal system. i support the calls on the polish authorities to publicly announce and implement the decisions of the country's constitutional court, as recommended by the venice commission of the council of europe. the european commission must work with the polish government to find a solution to the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament supports the commission's decision to launch a structured dialogue under the rule of law framework, which should clarify whether there is a systemic threat to democratic values and the rule of law in poland. parliament welcomes the commission's assurance that the dialogue with the polish authorities will be conducted in an impartial, evidence-based and cooperative manner and calls on the commission, if the polish government does not follow the venice commission's recommendations in the framework of the structured dialogue, to initiate the second stage of the rule of law procedure by issuing its 'relection on the rule of law' and to offer its support to poland in seeking solutions to strengthen the rule of law. the european parliament, of course, stresses that all the actions to be taken, as laid down in the treaties and the principle of subsidiarity, must fall within the competence of the eu and its member states. parliament expects the commission to monitor all member states equally as regards respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, while avoiding double standards, and to inform the european parliament of this.
in writing. polish affairs are to be settled in poland and with poles. the european union is an association of free states, so no decisions can infringe the sovereignty of the member states. national issues must be dealt with at national level. politicians need a strong backbone to defend their country's national interests. national politicians are accountable only to the citizens of the states that elected them. the eu should not become a federation. i will always stand for a europe of the peoples, a union of free states and direct democracy, not for the consolidation of its fiction in europe.
in writing. today we are discussing the personal data package, which is a significant step towards ensuring a smoother exchange of data between member states and their institutions. data protection is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and citizens have the right to expect adequate data protection. while there are still concerns among citizens and politicians whether the new legislation will ensure effective and comprehensive protection of personal data, we must accept this package and ensure the necessary transfer of information between member states. in the face of the current threat of terrorism, there is no longer room for hesitation. recent terrorist acts could have been avoided if member states had provided their own data on terrorists, but this has not been done. today, the security of europe and our citizens is more important than ever, and i believe that the personal data package, while flawed, will be useful in the fight against terrorism and in preventing new terrorist attacks.
in writing. the rapid development of information technology has led to a much larger footprint in the virtual space than we are likely to think. we voluntarily agree to the transfer of personal data by registering on various portals, uploading photos and location on social networks. it is therefore paradoxical that, as citizens increasingly share their private information publicly, left-wing parties have for years blocked a crucial initiative to collect data on people travelling to the eu in order to ensure the safety of european citizens. it is clear that in the midst of the crises that are gripping europe, it is no longer possible to reconcile the openness and security that have been cultivated for many years. therefore, while privacy is an important value to be protected, it should not become a pretext for inaction in addressing the essential problems arising from a lack of interdisciplinary or cross-border coordination . unfortunately, it took the paris and brussels massacres for some groups in parliament to understand that defending human rights starts with creating a safe environment. if we turn to a society of fear, it will only further strengthen the resolve and confidence of the groups that seek to destroy western civilization in the integrity of their goals. i therefore support the consistent position of the group of the european people's party that the creation of a passenger database will make the fight against terrorism and organised crime in europe more effective.
the report by mr meszerics is a good example of the european parliament's commitment to tackling problems that directly affect millions of our poor citizens. i'm glad that lithuanian law prohibits the shutdown of heating and cold water for residents. in our country, there is also a system of subsidies that compensate for heating costs. this is especially important when you consider that about 10 percent of lithuanians' income is spent on heating. it is also important that the report calls for a minimum income for europe. this should be done as soon as possible, linking income to the price index. i don't know why it hasn't been done before. perhaps because it would make it easy to see that many european citizens are poor because of their incredibly low incomes. the european union is investing heavily in poverty reduction in other countries, and i think it is high time that investment was directed to europe itself.
in writing. this report aims to link social policy and energy policy in the european debate. the commission's communication is a first step towards a european pillar of social rights, with the aim of strengthening the european social dimension through an integrated approach, modernising existing legislation and considering new measures to support greater compatibility over time. more social commitments for the eu a long-term unrealized political promise, so by establishing a minimum income system and further improving social and labour rights and anti-discrimination legislation, the eu can aim to move to the next level of integration. increasing the income of poor households is one of the most important aspects of the success of the europe 2020 strategy and the fight against poverty for the following two reasons. inequality in the eu has been increasing since the start of the crisis and one in six eu citizens still lives in or faces the prospect of poverty. the second pillar is the fight against poverty, in particular extreme poverty, through effective reductions in household expenditure, better targeting of the various funds to the most vulnerable households and removing obstacles to the efficient absorption of resources. a better allocation of eu funds to energy-poor households would also bring these objectives closer to reality. the initiative introduces the concept of a european winter heating moratorium to protect households already experiencing energy poverty or those at risk of being cut off from services due to late payment of utility bills.
in writing. ‒ today we have adopted a personal data package, a significant step towards ensuring a smoother exchange of data between member states and their institutions. data protection is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and citizens have the right to expect adequate data protection. although there are still concerns among citizens and politicians whether the new legislation will ensure effective and comprehensive protection of personal data, i voted in favour of the whole package. in the face of the current terrorist threat, there was no longer room for hesitation. recent terrorist acts could have been avoided if member states had provided the data they had on terrorists, but this has not been done. today, the security of europe and our citizens is more important than ever, and i believe that the personal data package, while flawed, will be useful in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the recommendation for a council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. since directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, much has changed in the field of data protection, in particular with the improvement of technology, the collection and processing of more personal data, including for law enforcement purposes, the application of a heterogeneous set of data protection rules, and the globalisation of markets and cooperation. moreover, the directive has not been able to achieve adequate harmonisation, as the provisions of this document are implemented differently in the member states. in this context, it has become more difficult for individuals (data subjects) to exercise their right to data protection. finally, this failure hinders the development of the single market between companies (who control or process personal data, data controllers) and individuals facing different data protection requirements. the european parliament welcomes the proposed transfer of the notification requirements to data protection authorities to the practical accountability and corporate data protection officers. the proposed regulation could be simplified by combining the right to information with the documentary requirements, since they are essentially two sides of the same coin. this will reduce the administrative burden for controllers and make it easier for individuals to understand and exercise their rights.
in writing. i support the draft regulation submitted. technological developments and globalisation have fundamentally changed the principles governing the processing, access to and use of personal data. a uniform data protection framework should therefore be established and applied in the eu. it is worth noting that the new data protection rules will give internet users more control over their personal data. in addition, the requirements for the transfer of data to third countries will be established. this will facilitate consumer access to information society services and stimulate the growth of these services and innovation in europe. the new amendments will help to reduce the administrative and financial burden on business operators.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure a uniform high level of data protection in this area and thus to increase mutual trust between the police and judicial authorities of the different member states, to facilitate the free movement of data and to facilitate police and judicial cooperation. today we have adopted a package of personal data, which is a significant step towards ensuring a smoother exchange of data between member states and their institutions. data protection is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and citizens have the right to expect adequate data protection. although there are still concerns among citizens and politicians whether the new legislation will ensure effective and comprehensive protection of personal data, i voted in favour of the whole package. in the face of the current terrorist threat, there was no longer room for hesitation. recent terrorist acts could have been avoided if member states had provided the data they had on terrorists, but this has not been done. today, the security of europe and our citizens is more important than ever, and i believe that the personal data package, while flawed, will be useful in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the council position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data. the purpose of the processing of personal data to serve the human being, i.e. the principles and rules for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of their personal data should respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the right to the protection of personal data, regardless of their nationality or place of residence. this should help to complete the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. it should be noted that rapid technological development and globalisation are creating new challenges for the protection of personal data. the scale of data collection and exchange has increased substantially. technologies allow competent authorities to use personal data on an unprecedented scale in the course of their activities. it is therefore essential to ensure a uniform high level of protection of personal data in order to facilitate the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. therefore, an equivalent level of protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons should be ensured in all member states when personal data are processed by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties.
in writing. i support the draft directive presented. it should be noted that the reform of personal data protection in the eu is one of the most important priorities in the area of justice. in addition, the increasing number of cyber-attacks requires stronger data protection measures. the adoption of the new directive will bring the common data protection principles and rules to bear on the cooperation of competent authorities in criminal matters, and the rules will apply to both domestic and cross-border transfers of personal data. this will create a common eu data protection framework and ensure more effective resolution of criminal cases. the new regulation will help prevent cyber-attacks and will allow citizens' rights to privacy online to be adequately protected and enhanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the use of pnr data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorism and serious crime. pnr data information provided by passengers when booking a ticket and held by the air carrier. the proposed directive also provides for the use of pnr data by law enforcement authorities and therefore harmonises the rules for such measures. carefully analysed pnr data can be an effective tool for detecting and tracking criminal and terrorist activities. they may also be used for retaliatory, real-time or active actions to stop, monitor, interrogate and prosecute criminals.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the commission proposal on the use of eu passenger name record (pnr) data. it should be noted that the nature of crime and terrorist activities has been changing in recent years. it has become bolder, more complex and increasingly transnational. given the high costs associated with crime, it has been found that a growing number of citizens want stronger action at eu level to combat organised crime and terrorism. pnr data information provided by passengers when booking a ticket and held by the air carrier. these data are primarily used by air carriers for operational purposes (including information provided in 19 fields such as travel date, travel itinerary, ticket details, contact details, travel agent information, means of payment used, seat number and baggage data), although they are valuable to air carriers from both a commercial and statistical point of view. the commission proposal sets out two main objectives: first, to harmonise the provisions on the obligation of air carriers operating flights to or from a third country and to or from the territory of at least one member state to transfer pnr data to law enforcement authorities; and second, to set out the criteria for the use of such information by law enforcement authorities, i.e. for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences and serious crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. common passenger data recording rules must be applied across the eu as an effective tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. it is worth noting that the provisions of the new directive will ensure that air passenger data are forwarded in advance to the competent authorities of the relevant eu countries, which will have to store them for a certain period of time. in the case of transfers of passenger data, particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of safeguards and to ensuring an adequate level of protection. in addition, the legal certainty of air carriers and the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data, as well as their physical security, must be ensured.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report because the libe committee, of which i am a member, drew attention to the fact that the stockholm programme called on the commission to submit a request for the use of pnr data only for the prevention and detection of terrorism and serious crime. let us remember that we are dealing with sensitive, confidential and highly personal data. pnr data is information provided by air passengers purchasing a ticket and stored by airlines. it is good that the report clearly states that the measures used must not interfere with the free movement of persons and should not infringe the right of citizens to leave, and must also serve only to ensure the safety of citizens on the move.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which sets out new rules to make it easier for companies affected by the theft of trade secrets to defend their rights in court and to obtain compensation for the damage suffered. these rules are complemented by safeguards that do not restrict investigative journalism or prevent the reporting of illegal business activities. in its coordination with the eu council, the ep sought to ensure that the rules do not restrict media freedom, investigative journalism or the protection of information sources. the commission has also provided information on the number of companies that have been granted the right to use the trade secret in the context of the investigation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. some member states have adopted legislation to protect trade secrets against misappropriation, but some member states have not defined trade secrets and do not have binding legislation on the protection of trade secrets against misappropriation. this situation creates gaps and obstacles to the effective functioning of the internal market. it is also appropriate to determine at union level the cases in which the acquisition, use and disclosure of a trade secret are lawful or unlawful and to limit the period of application of redress procedures in order to achieve the objective of this directive of ensuring the consistent protection of trade secrets in the european union. it is therefore important to establish a uniform definition of a trade secret without limiting the object which must be protected against misappropriation. such definition should be formulated to cover business information, technological information and practical experience, taking into account both the legitimate interest in keeping such information secret and the legitimate expectation that such confidentiality will be preserved.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. the ep calls on the secretary-general to make the proposal for the budget public, ensuring that it is presented in a comprehensive, understandable and user-friendly manner on parliament's website, in order to enable all citizens to gain a better understanding of parliament's activities, priorities and relevant spending patterns. i support calls for a medium- and long-term budget plan, including clear information on security and cybersecurity related expenditure. it is also important to develop reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness. i agree that a lot of money could be saved if the institution had only one job instead of three (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. parliament calls for transparency, accessibility and clarity of information and decisions and therefore calls on the secretary-general to submit a proposal for the budget to be made public to the general public, ensuring that it is presented in a comprehensive, understandable and user-friendly manner on parliament's website in order to enable all citizens to gain a better understanding of parliament's activities, priorities and relevant spending patterns. the european parliament considers that structural and organisational reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness should be pursued in the context of a thorough examination of the possibilities for synergies and cost savings. it should be noted that a very large amount of money could be saved if the institution had only one place of work instead of three (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg). this process should be carried out without jeopardising parliament's legislative competence, budgetary and control powers or the quality of working conditions of members, assistants and staff. parliament also urges the secretary-general to submit a detailed report on the implementation of the administrative parts of the cooperation agreements between parliament, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee and to draw up, on the basis of this report, possible agreements on further administrative cooperation in the fields of logistics, infrastructure or security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which discusses turkey's progress towards eu membership. the situation of media freedom, respect for the rule of law and the situation of the kurdish minority in the south-east of the country remain a matter of concern. i agree that cooperation on migration should not be linked to accession negotiations. turkey must meet the criteria for membership. and this cannot be negotiated in exchange for cooperation on migration.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which examines turkey's 2015 progress report. the european parliament welcomes the considerable progress made in the united nations-led accession negotiations with cyprus. it welcomed the joint declaration of the two leaders of 11 february 2014 as a basis for the conclusion of the agreement and endorsed the republic of cyprus becoming a federation of two communities and two zones with one supreme authority, one international legal entity and one citizenship. that both communities and zones are politically equal and provide equal opportunities for all residents, without prior agreement on a final agreement and in accordance with relevant un security council resolutions and international law. it also welcomes the constructive approach of the leaders of both the greek and turkish cypriot communities on the island, their determination and their untiring efforts to find a just, comprehensive and viable solution as soon as possible. stresses the importance of the solution to the decades-old cyprus problem for the whole region and for europe and the european union, welcomes the possibility of holding a new referendum on accession and calls on all parties to contribute to a positive outcome;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the 2015 report on albania. parliament welcomed the fact that albania was making steady progress on the five key priority reforms. however, calls on all political parties to make greater efforts to engage in a more constructive and genuine political dialogue, which would allow the adoption and implementation of key reforms. the continued cooperation between the ruling and opposition parties in parliament is crucial to albania's eu accession process and its efforts to meet the accession criteria. it is essential to respect the commitments to develop a democratic political culture, including openness to dialogue, negotiation and compromise, and to reject boycotts and radicalism altogether.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the 2015 report on albania. parliament welcomed the fact that albania was making steady progress on the five key priority reforms needed to launch accession negotiations. it calls on the government, parliament and political parties to sustain the reform drive and to accelerate the implementation of reforms and to speed up the substantive judicial reform, as it is essential to implement these reforms properly and in a timely manner. the european parliament welcomes the constructive cooperation between the ruling and opposition parties and the unanimous adoption by parliament of the law on the prohibition of the appointment and recruitment of criminal offenders to public office (the so-called decriminalisation law). welcomes furthermore albania's commitment to a comprehensive and thorough reform of the justice system and strongly encourages the albanian authorities to continue with urgency the preparations for this substantial reform in order to foster the confidence of citizens and businesses in the justice system. welcomes the close cooperation with the venice commission and encourages the continuation of the cooperative approach until the reform is adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which discusses the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. i support the calls for the country's authorities to demonstrate their determination to reform and make continuous progress in the eu integration process and to ensure transparency in the process of planning and implementing reforms. it is essential to continue constitutional, legal and political reforms that would help transform bosnia and herzegovina into a fully effective, inclusive and functioning state that ensures equality and democratic representation for all its peoples and citizens, irrespective of their ethnic origin and religion.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which examines the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. the european parliament underlines the important role of civil society in defending and promoting the rights of minorities in the country, as well as in fostering harmony and tolerance in society and raising people's awareness of the benefits of diversity. he calls for the involvement of civil society in the future in tackling ethnic segregation, with a view to bringing the country closer to eu membership. calls also for better coordination between the competent authorities and civil society organisations in order to ensure better implementation of the minorities act; parliament stressed that education was an essential aspect of building and promoting a tolerant and inclusive society and fostering cooperation and cohesion across cultural, religious and ethnic differences, and called for concrete measures to be taken to tackle segregation in the education system. furthermore, a great deal of effort is needed to improve the efficiency of the fragmented education system, while ensuring the right to equal access to education in all the languages of bosnia and herzegovina and the right of each community to educate its children in their mother tongue. parliament called on the authorities to ensure effective implementation of the principles of inclusive education, including for children with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this bill, which is designed to help reduce the cost of heating for poor families. between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 to 122.6 million. in addition, 10% of eu citizens were not paying all their utility bills in 2015 (37% in the worst-affected member state), 12% of eu citizens were not able to heat their homes sufficiently in 2014 (60% in the worst-affected member state), and 16% of eu citizens were living in a flat with a flat roof and wet walls in 2014 (33% in the worst-affected member state). eu countries must sign up to a winter moratorium on heating, which would prevent any household from losing its electricity in winter. to combat poverty, the proposal calls for increased support for poor households and investment in energy efficiency projects that can reduce heating bills. i agree that the eu is moving away from the 2020 target of reducing the number of people living in poverty in the eu by at least 20 million. the european commission, for its part, has to assess whether minimum income systems can meet the basic needs of households. between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 to 122.6 million.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to combat energy poverty and reduce household costs. it should be noted that the european union is moving away from the poverty target of the europe 2020 strategy, while the eu has a corresponding unrealised potential to reduce the high consumption costs of impoverished households by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to energy deprived households, to achieve the europe 2020 target and also to achieve the energy efficiency, consumption and renewable energy targets. the various actors are encouraged to take further action, using different instruments, but in the same direction. the commission's communication is a first step towards a european pillar of social rights to strengthen the european social dimension through an integrated approach, modernising existing legislation and considering new measures to support greater compatibility over time. more social commitments for the eu a long-term unfulfilled political promise, so by creating a minimum income system and further improving social and labour rights and anti-discrimination legislation, the eu can aim to take integration to the next level. increasing the income of poor households is one of the most important aspects of the success of the europe 2020 strategy and the fight against poverty for the following two reasons. inequality in the eu has been increasing since the start of the crisis and one in six eu citizens still lives in or faces the prospect of poverty.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report by mr meszerics, member of the european parliament, because the problem of poverty it raises is one that requires decisive action. according to the data, between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union increased from 117 to 122.6 million, a significant figure. the eu institutions cannot therefore remain neutral on this issue. the commission should encourage member states to engage fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to adopt an integrated strategy to combat the various forms of poverty. at european level, however, a comprehensive approach is needed, linking economic policy, employment policy, education, energy and transport policy more closely with social policy, building on the best practices of recent years. the european union should particularly support new member states, such as lithuania, in bridging the gaps between the old and the new union in the areas of social and economic relations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal on the private sector and development. in developing countries, population and income growth should drive the growth of the global middle class, which is expected to reach 5 billion by 2030, and consequently significantly increase consumption levels. by 2030, demand for food, water and energy is projected to increase by 50 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent respectively. one of the key aspects of the eu's added value to the private sector agenda is its political weight and reputed capacity for dialogue with partner governments and local authorities. while communication is still unclear at the level of the commitments to be undertaken, country strategy papers, national indicative programmes and budget support can be the most valuable tools for initiating reforms of the business environment in partner countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the private sector and development. in developing countries, population and income growth should drive the growth of the global middle class, which is expected to reach 5 billion by 2030, and consequently significantly increase consumption levels. by 2030, demand for food, water and energy is projected to increase by 50 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent respectively. in this sector, total value is increasingly seen as a means of achieving economic success rather than an expression of philanthropy. in developing countries, private sector investment in energy, electricity and transport projects is expected to generate double-digit returns in most cases. small, medium and micro enterprises in developing countries face a much heavier regulatory burden than in the eu, often operate in the shadow economy and lack legal protection. according to the world bank's 2014 report on 'business', the poorest countries have the highest regulatory burden. in order to ensure the prosperity of enterprises, priority should be given not only to reducing red tape and improving the overall business environment, but also to creating an environment favourable to private initiative and to the integration and retention of small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises in the formal economy.
in writing. we all agree that there is a need to increase transparency and efficiency in the use of eu funds. a significant saving and a more efficient functioning of the european parliament could be achieved by moving to a single seat. i support the idea that a solution must be found for the single european parliament. the court of auditors' report adopted on 11 july 2014 indicated that a single location for parliament could save the union budget some eur 114 million per year. i think we need to respond appropriately to such conclusions and to draw up an action plan for the move to a single headquarters, as has already been suggested in several previous parliament resolutions.
in writing. we must protect the rights and interests of children throughout the european union. the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration in all decisions concerning childcare. it should be emphasised that the increase in migration has led to an increase in cross-border child protection problems in the european union, including the abolition of guardianship. first of all, we need to talk about the role of social services in protecting children's rights and we need to call on member states to provide adequate support to families as they are the primary carers, especially in vulnerable communities at risk of social exclusion. member states should also be encouraged not to apply austerity measures to the budget for improving the quality of social services. it is also essential that social workers and all other professionals working with cross-border cases involving children receive specialised training and education. in court proceedings involving children, it is necessary that member states provide parents with full and clear information about the proceedings and their possible consequences from the outset and at every stage of the proceedings involving the child.
in writing. turkish minister for the european union volkan bozkir said during a visit to austria that ankara could suspend the readmission agreement if the eu does not grant visa-free travel to turkish citizens by june. he called it "the good times". normally, in negotiations with third countries, the eu is able to do this on its own terms. however, both the negotiation and implementation of the eu-turkey deal have taken a very different course, with ankara increasingly taking a rather categorical 'all or nothing' stance. the agreement already gave turkey many privileges, from huge financial support to new chapters in eu membership negotiations. the eu also promised to grant visa-free travel to turkish citizens. and while this has happened against the backdrop of the migrant crisis that is gripping europe, the eu cannot ignore what is objective. a growing number of international human rights organisations are expressing concern about the centralisation of power in turkey and the curtailment of human rights and democratic freedoms. in the 2016 global press freedom index, turkey dropped two places and today ranks just 151 out of 180 countries. the new york-based committee to protect journalists said that media freedom in turkey is under government siege. despite the importance of the readmission agreement, we must remain principled and make the decision on visa waiver subject to strict conditionality criteria, and ankara must realise this. the eu-turkey agreement must not become a tool for the turkish authorities to blackmail the eu into abandoning its founding principles.
i congratulate all three rapporteurs on their work. this set of documents is of great importance not only for the railway sector but also for the european union as a whole, for its competitiveness. for many years, colleagues, we have been discussing the need to strengthen the role of the european railway agency, and today this is already becoming a reality. this will not only reduce the administrative burden on carriers in the future, but will also ensure a more consistent application of rail legislation across the european union. the european safety certificate is certainly useful for carriers wishing to expand their activities in several countries of the european union. it is also essential to reach agreement on facilitating the entry of new entrants and service providers into the internal markets for passenger transport, as increased competition would lead to lower prices and higher quality of service.
mr president, two years ago, on 2 april 2014, this house, the european parliament, with an absolute majority, adopted a recommendation to the council on establishing common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the death of sergei magnitsky. in that recommendation, the parliament addressed the council asking, among other measures, to impose and implement an eu—wide visa ban on 32 russian officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky and for the subsequent judicial cover—up and ongoing harassment of his mother and widow. i would like to draw attention to the fact that yesterday an event was held here in the parliament by one of our colleagues, a member of the european parliament, from a very respected political group. two persons from the magnitsky list were present at this event. they are pavel karpov and andrey pavlov, who were let in to make their interventions. i deplore this happening within the walls of the european parliament. mr president, i want to draw your attention to this problem, which is an issue of the integrity of our own decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement. agreement with georgia first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a key aviation partner in the caucasus region. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia accedes to agreements concluded by the union with third countries before its accession to the eu. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the eu and its member states and georgia, and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the objective of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states and georgia and to make the necessary linguistic amendments to the agreement in this regard. the protocol will not introduce any changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement. agreement with georgia first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a key aviation partner in the caucasus region. this agreement forms part of the framework of the union's external aviation policy as established by the commission. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia accedes to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries before its accession to the european union by concluding the protocols annexed to those agreements. the commission has negotiated with the georgian authorities a protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the recommendation. it should be noted that the eu-georgia agreement is the first comprehensive air transport agreement. this is a major step forward towards the creation of a common aviation space. the agreement ensured uniform air safety, customer service standards and non-discriminatory operating conditions, as well as reduced fares. in view of the benefits of this agreement, it is essential that croatia becomes a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states and georgia and is able to operate on the relevant routes and to use the capacity and adequate safety, security and air traffic management will be ensured. it should be noted that this protocol does not alter the content of the common aviation area agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is part of a wider integration. the purpose of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the protocol will not introduce any changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement. in view of this, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-israel euro-mediterranean aviation agreement. the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean, is a major achievement in the creation of a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia accedes to agreements concluded with third countries before its accession to the eu. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on the european and mediterranean aviation area, and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the purpose of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, and to make the necessary linguistic amendments to the agreement in this regard. the protocol will not make any changes to the content of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement. the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean, is a major achievement in the creation of a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. this agreement is part of the framework of the eu's external aviation policy as set out by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on the european and mediterranean aviation area, was signed on 10 june 2013. following croatia's accession to the european union, it is necessary for it to accede to the agreement by means of the protocols. the commission has negotiated with the israeli authorities a protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the protocol was signed on 19 february 2015. the council's approval of the european parliament is required for the conclusion of the protocol. in view of croatia's interests and the eu's commitments, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations was signed in brussels on 18 december 1997. the act of accession provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states, including the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. those conventions and protocols shall enter into force for croatia on a date to be fixed by the council.
in writing. - i agree with the report. the damage caused by customs infringements often transcends national borders. it is therefore essential that croatia accede to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union. it should be noted that the application of the convention's provisions as a legal cooperation instrument ensures effective and intensive cooperation between the customs administrations of the eu member states. it also provides new and wide-ranging possibilities for customs administrations to combat infringements of national and community customs legislation and criminal offences.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is more technical in nature, requiring the council to consult parliament again if it intends to make a substantial change to a recommendation adopted by parliament. the latter relates to the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has forwarded the request of the chief inspector of road transport of poland to revoke the immunity of the polish member of the european parliament, mr bolesław g. piech, for speeding. since the alleged breach of the law was committed before bolesław g. piecha became a member of the european parliament and therefore the breach is not directly or ostensibly related to the exercise of the duties of bolesław g. piecha as a member of the european parliament, i therefore support the decision to waive the immunity of bolesław g. piecha.
in writing. - i voted on this report to waive the immunity of bolesław g. piech. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the chief inspector of road transport of poland to waive the immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha, member of the european parliament from poland, for administrative offences and for a breach of the law defined by the road traffic rules, on the grounds that he was suspected of speeding in a settlement. the alleged infringement of the law was committed before mr bolesław g. piecha became a member of the european parliament, when mr bolesław g. piecha was a member of the senate of the republic of poland. the infringement is therefore not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of mr bolesław g. piech as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal, which aims to protect the interests of the child. it aims to protect the interests of children in cross-border cases involving decisions on their custody or adoption. i support calls for eu countries to appoint specialised chambers in family courts or mediation bodies to deal with crossborder cases involving children. in addition, the calls for regular visitation rights for parents and to allow them to communicate with their children in their native language during the visitation period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because we have to protect and safeguard the interests of the child throughout the european union. in the european union, the recent increase in the movement of citizens between member states and migration has led to a rise in cross-border child protection issues. this is particularly the case in court proceedings involving children, as it is necessary to ensure that embassies or consular posts are informed from the outset of any child-care-related proceedings involving their nationals and that they are given full access to the relevant documents. the parliament therefore proposes that consular offices should be allowed to participate in all stages of judicial proceedings. secondly, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to promote and co-finance the creation of a platform for the provision of assistance to nationals of another eu member state in family law cases and a single european helpline for child abduction or exploitation, as well as for consultation in custody and adoption cases.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the best interests of the child are always paramount. the legitimate interests of the child must always and everywhere be a primary consideration. the effective realisation of the rights of the child requires a real and effective mechanism for protection and redress in the event of violations. therefore, a platform should be established in the eu to provide assistance to nationals of another eu member state in family law matters, and a single european helpline should also be operational. it is necessary to pay greater attention to the protection of children in cross-border cases, by promoting justice in the best interests of the child, by better informing children of their rights. in addition, the role of social services in child protection needs to be strengthened.
in writing. - i voted for this document. it should be stressed that it addresses an important issue the protection of the rights of the child, especially when his parents choose to live in different eu countries. such cases are becoming more frequent, but there is a lack of regulation in europe, as well as cooperation between member states in this area. children whose parents exercise the right of free movement have the right to maintain regular personal contact and direct contact with their parents, except where this right has been restricted by a court. yet, children rarely have access to it. this cannot be achieved without member states' efforts to create synergy between the 28 national child protection systems.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the eesc to be consulted, the president of parliament shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to consult the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the economic and social committee to be consulted, the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof. the committee may request the european economic and social committee to consult it on general or specific questions. the committee shall set a deadline within which the european economic and social committee shall deliver its opinion. the request to consult the european economic and social committee shall be approved by parliament without debate. the opinions of the economic and social committee shall be forwarded to the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ currently, the transport market share held by rail in the eu remains low, and many consumers in a number of eu countries, including lithuania, are not completely satisfied with rail services. i believe that strengthening the european railway agency (by gradually delegating to it some national responsibilities) and making it a one—stop shop would make european railways more competitive and efficient, which in turn would increase consumer satisfaction. having an agency to monitor the performance of the national authorities in charge of rail safety is very important in order to keep standards high and consistent across the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu railway agency. this new set of legislation is designed to create a common european railway area. this is the technical part of the 4th railway code, which regulates the interoperability and safety of the rail system and the activities of the eu railway agency. the new rules simplify and make it cheaper for companies planning to expand their operations in several eu countries to certify locomotives and rolling stock. they will no longer have to apply for these certificates to each eu country individually a single safety certificate will be issued by the european railway agency. this set of documents is of great importance not only for the railway sector but also for the competitiveness of the european union as a whole. the need to strengthen the role of the european railway agency has been discussed for many years. today, that has become a reality. this will not only reduce the administrative burden on carriers in the future, but also ensure a more consistent application of rail legislation across the eu. national authorities will have to recognise the importance of working with and between the european railway agency (era) in order to create an integrated and dynamic cross-border railway system. cooperation is even more necessary for those countries using the 1 520 mm wide crane (the russian crane, which is also used by lithuania), as they will have to conclude a multilateral agreement with the ega, which will define the conditions under which the vehicle's authorisation will also be valid in the other member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which examines the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways. the three previous railway files already provided for substantial changes to make european railways more competitive and interoperable, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment remain in this sector. today there are too many different national legal provisions, and too many unclear procedures and standards. the commission has developed this fourth railway package with the aim of improving the performance of the railway sector and increasing competitiveness, thereby improving the quality and efficiency of rail services. this aims at better compatibility of technical infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other railway systems, as well as simplification of procedures for authorising the use of rolling stock on the european rail network. the proposals are closely linked, in particular because the directives set out many of the tasks of the european railway agency.
in writing. ‒ before voting on this much-needed proposal, please note the reasoned opinions of the parliaments of even three member states: lithuania, romania and sweden. they point out that the fact that the european railway agency has acquired the right to certify railway vehicles for both european and national transport activities bypassing national authorities is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. are we forgetting the principle of mutual recognition and distrust of national institutions? what will be the next step in this direction the establishment of a european agency for the safety of light vehicles? on the other hand, apart from this element which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, i am convinced that the egf is a necessary institution. it will make a significant contribution to the creation of a single european railway market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the interoperability of the eu rail system in the european union. this new set of legislation is designed to create a common european railway area. this is the technical part of the 4th railway code, which regulates the interoperability and safety of the rail system and the activities of the eu railway agency. the new rules simplify and make it cheaper for companies planning to expand their operations in several eu countries to certify locomotives and rolling stock. they will no longer have to apply for these certificates to each eu country individually a single safety certificate will be issued by the european railway agency. this set of documents is of great importance not only for the railway sector but also for the competitiveness of the european union as a whole. the need to strengthen the role of the european railway agency has been discussed for many years. today, that has become a reality. this will not only reduce the administrative burden on carriers in the future, but also ensure a more consistent application of rail legislation across the eu. it is also essential to reach an agreement as soon as possible on facilitating the entry of new entrants and service providers into the internal rail passenger markets, as increased competition would lead to lower prices and higher quality of service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which sets out the position adopted by the council at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the european union rail market has undergone major changes over the last decade, which have been gradually implemented under three railway packages to open up national markets and ensure that railways become more competitive and interoperable at eu level, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, despite the major innovations in the eu acquis that have created an internal market for rail transport services the share of rail transport in the context of intra-eu transport remains modest. the overall eu market share for rail transport is currently stuck at 6% and 54% of consumers are dissatisfied with rail services, according to eurobarometer. the commission therefore decided in january 2013 to present the fourth railway package in order to remove the remaining obstacles to the creation of a single european railway market and to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services.
in writing. ‒ the before voting in favour of this much-needed proposal, please note the reasoned opinions of the parliaments of even three member states - lithuania, romania and sweden. they point out that the fact that the european railway agency has acquired the right to certify railway vehicles for both european and national transport activities bypassing national authorities is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. are we forgetting the principle of mutual recognition and distrust of national institutions? what will be the next step in this direction the establishment of a european agency for the safety of light vehicles? on the other hand, apart from this element which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, i am convinced that the fourth railway package is a much-needed document. it will go a long way towards creating a single european railway market. i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that the ega document obliges to take account of the interests of the member states which use the 1520 mm track and which constitute a substantially separate railway area. in this respect, the fourth package lacks only one commitment: to make every effort to speed up the construction of rail baltica and to make european railways finally a single system.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on eu rail safety. this new set of legislation is designed to create a common european railway area. this is the technical part of the 4th railway code, which regulates the interoperability and safety of the rail system and the activities of the eu railway agency. the new rules simplify and make it cheaper for companies planning to expand their operations in several eu countries to certify locomotives and rolling stock. they will no longer have to apply for these certificates to each eu country individually a single safety certificate will be issued by the european railway agency. this set of documents is of great importance not only for the railway sector but also for the competitiveness of the european union as a whole. the need to strengthen the role of the european railway agency has been discussed for many years. today, that has become a reality. this will not only reduce the administrative burden on carriers in the future, but also ensure a more consistent application of rail legislation across the eu. the european safety certificate will undoubtedly be of benefit to carriers wishing to expand their activities in several eu countries. this will save them not only money but also time. together, we will maintain a high level of security. it is also essential to reach an agreement as soon as possible on facilitating the entry of new entrants and service providers into the internal rail passenger markets, as increased competition would lead to lower prices and higher quality of service.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which examines the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive on railway safety. the establishment of a common railway safety regulatory framework is necessary in order to create a common railway transport market. member states have developed their safety rules, mainly applicable to national lines, on the basis of national technical and operational concepts. at the same time, the different principles, approaches and cultures made it difficult to overcome technical obstacles and to start international transport activities. directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community's railways was a major step forward in the development of a common regulatory framework for railway safety. in order to ensure that member states do not develop their own safety rules and standards for national lines based on national technical and operational concepts, this directive establishes a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules, the safety certification of railway undertakings, the tasks and functions of safety authorities and the accident investigation procedure. however, safety shall continue to be certified at national level. the establishment and application of the single eu safety certificate has always been a long-term objective. the main objective of the commission proposal for the revision of directive 2004/49/ec was to introduce a single union safety certificate to replace the current two-part system (a and b).
in writing. ‒ the before voting in favour of this much-needed proposal, please note the reasoned opinions of the parliaments of even three member states - lithuania, romania and sweden. they point out that the fact that the european railway agency has acquired the right to certify railway vehicles for both european and national transport activities bypassing national authorities is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. are we forgetting the principle of mutual recognition and distrust of national institutions? what will be the next step in this direction the establishment of a european agency for the safety of light vehicles? on the other hand, apart from this element which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, i am convinced that the harmonization of safety requirements in rail transport is a very welcome development which will lead to the creation of a truly unified european railway system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to increase the credibility of benchmarks. the new rules increase the soundness, transparency and reliability of benchmarks such as libor and euribor. these indices affect the value of financial instruments and contracts in excess of eur 500 billion and can therefore directly determine the stability of eu financial markets. i agree that stricter regulation was necessary after the libor scandal, where traders manipulated benchmarks and interest rates for huge profits. these indicators are used to determine the prices of derivatives and loans worth billions of euros worldwide. it is also important to distinguish between benchmarks of particular importance and to apply stricter transparency requirements to them.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. legislation should take into account the fact that the vast majority of businesses and households, investors and financial institutions use available benchmarks from across the eu and beyond on a daily basis to do business, trade, invest, insure against risks and to grant or receive credit efficiently. it is therefore necessary, in the interests of the stability and efficiency of markets and the economy in general, to ensure that legislative action limits as little as possible the number and variety of benchmarks proposed and used in the eu. indeed, more benchmarks are needed to reduce the importance of certain large benchmarks to the system and to give users more opportunities to exercise effective market discipline and to prevent or deter manipulation of benchmarks. this has three main objectives: firstly, to strengthen the governance of systems and standards, in particular for widely used and systemically important benchmarks, and to reduce the risk of manipulation and abuse. second, to enhance transparency by giving all benchmark users greater access to information to enable them to make informed decisions. third, to support the availability and availability of a wide variety of benchmarks, with a proportionate application of governance requirements. this includes the creation of a level playing field for all administrators, whether established in the european union or in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the i support the draft regulation submitted. the new rules would ensure the soundness, transparency and reliability of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. it should be noted that these indicators are of crucial importance in the financial sector for the pricing of various products and for the correct allocation of risk and capital. the proposed new measures will prevent index manipulation and help restore confidence in the markets. harmonised international benchmarks will reflect the real economy, increase market transparency and benefit end-users.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is a clear regulatory gap where supervisors carry out the supervision of financial instruments but do not supervise the development and management of indices that determine the risk profile, performance and economic value of these instruments. however, the proposed document is weak and its provisions are unlikely to prevent further index manipulation scandals in the future. the document does not mention the transparency of the process or consumer protection, which gives the report an even more incomplete impression.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of discharge to the european commission and the executive agencies. the discharge for 2014 helps to provide a more comprehensive coverage of all aspects, including errors, legality, absorption, performance indicators and results. i support calls on the commission and other stakeholders to further develop the appropriate methodology and framework to ensure a more active and widespread application of the performance-based approach. it also calls on the relevant union institutions to adapt their management and procedural systems to successfully implement new elements arising from the current and future needs of the union budget in order to make the most of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the court's recommendations that the europe 2020 strategy and the multiannual financial framework (mff) should be better aligned, that high-level policy objectives should be transformed into useful operational objectives, and stresses the importance of focusing on operational efficiency and results and added value, in particular in pursuit of the employment and social objectives. parliament called on the commission to establish performance indicators and monitoring systems to allow comparison of results and agreed targets, to have better information on future targets and to increase the efficiency of the use of eu funds. parliament also asked the member states to avoid increasing the complexity of the rules and requirements for implementing the esf, as this would place an additional burden on beneficiaries and increase the risk of error.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i think it's very important to note that there were errors in the payments, with a probable rate of 4.4%. the commission notes that the average annual growth rate of the union industry was around 2,5% in the period considered. however, the european parliament cannot stand still and has therefore given its consent to the closure of the accounts of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. i welcome the innovative nature of the court's 2014 annual report, which takes a results- and performance-based approach to assessing the implementation and orientation of the union budget interventions under the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the commission should take account of the european parliament's comments on the more efficient management and use of eu funds in the eu member states. the european court of auditors regularly notes in its special reports that the commission's monitoring of the proper and efficient use of eu funds is lacking in the management of eu funds. in the absence of commission monitoring, it is not possible to assess the extent to which the financial support from the european union contributes to the achievement of national and union objectives in the various policy areas. the commission should also ensure that it receives consistent and reliable information from the member states on the use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's discussion of the court's special reports in the context of the commission's discharge procedure for the 2014 budget. parliament stressed that the european union's rural development policy is essential to promote agricultural competitiveness and ensure the sustainable management of natural resources, as well as the continuity of climate policy. it regrets, however, that the commission did not provide guidelines and good practices at the beginning of the 2007-2013 programming period and did not ensure that the control systems of the member states were effective before they started approving grants, and therefore stresses that the commission should take more active and coherent action in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the court's work is in line with expectations. the special reports of these bodies provide information on important issues relating to the use of funds and are therefore important for parliament's role as the discharge authority.
in writing. i welcome the court's special report economy-wise: controlling the expenditure of grants for eu-funded rural development projects and i agree with its conclusions and recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european development funds for 2014. the court of auditors noted in its report that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the edfs as at 31 december 2014 and that the results of their operations and cash flows and developments in net assets for the financial year ended 31 december 2014 are in accordance with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and internationally recognised public sector accounting standards. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2014.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because of the need to redefine the way global actors and institutions work together, by defining new forms of drive and modes of action, in particular to achieve better results in the implementation of commitments relating to the european union's external policy instruments. the eu's external assistance is provided through international organisations that either use union funds or co-finance projects with the union, and this includes tasks related to monitoring and management. budget support entails significant risks related to the partner country's ability to use appropriately the funds allocated to it to have an impact on the overall agreed objectives and, in particular, to address certain challenges of transparency, accountability and good financial management. the european parliament welcomes the opinion of the court of auditors that the revenue reflected in the 2014 financial statements is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. it should be noted that, according to the court's assessment in its annual report, the most likely error rate for the expenditure operations of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh edfs is 3,8%. this indicates that the error rate is continuing to increase (from 3,4% in 2013 to 3% in 2012). this is a worrying trend that requires all possible measures to be taken.
i welcome the opinion of the court of auditors that the revenue presented in the 2014 financial statements is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament 's budget for 2014 . it is necessary to ensure the transparent and efficient use of funds. a change to the single seat would save a lot of money and would make the european parliament more efficient. i supported the amendment which stresses that the court of auditors' report adopted on 11 july 2014 indicates that if parliament were to operate in a single location, it would be possible to save about eur 114 million per year in the union budget. i support the calls to respond once again to the need to draw up an action plan for the move to a single headquarters, as stated in several previous parliament resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the discharge to be given to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. takes note of the court of auditors' recommendation that parliament should strengthen its controls on the reimbursement of expenditure by european political parties to their affiliated organisations and should develop and monitor the application of appropriate procurement rules for european political parties by carrying out appropriate checks and providing better guidance; parliament also requests full transparency of the expenditure of european political parties and that this information be examined and discussed in detail by the committee responsible in the future in the context of the normal discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives a detailed account of how the european parliament uses the funds it receives. it should be noted that parliament's final appropriations for 2014 were eur 1 755 631 742, representing 20,13% of the total appropriations for administrative expenditure of the eu institutions. despite the very significant activities of the parliament - for example, 340 500 visitors visited the european parliament's visitor centre in 2014 - there are also activities of dubious benefit. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to luxopco. therefore, an independent assessment of the benefits of similar activities is necessary to assess their benefits.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the instructions given by the directorate-general for finance to the travel agency to look for the best prices are being implemented effectively; i also urge the travel agency to intensify its comparison efforts and try to reach agreements with the main airlines for more flexibility and lower prices, while ensuring the possibility of changing travel conditions and cancelling trips; i encourage the travel agency to actively seek out cheaper tickets and offers when booking them and, in general, to offer more competitive prices using the offers of all airlines.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to postpone the adoption of the 2014 discharge report to the european council and the council. year after year, parliament reiterates that effective budgetary control can only be achieved through cooperation between parliament and the council and that the main elements of this cooperation must include formal meetings between representatives of the council and parliament's committee on budgetary control, the replies to questions put by committee members in the written questionnaire and the submission, when requested, of documents used as supporting documents in budgetary control. in the absence of such cooperation with the council, parliament cannot take an informed decision on discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament recalls that the council must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the european union for the funds allocated to it and fully and in good faith participate in the annual discharge procedure on the same basis as the other eu institutions. parliament stressed the need to improve the dialogue between the two institutions in order to find a solution as soon as possible to enable citizens to exercise their powers of contract and accountability. parliament stresses that effective budgetary control can only be achieved through cooperation between parliament and the council and that the main elements of this cooperation must include formal meetings between the council and the representatives of parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clearly indicates the council's unwillingness to cooperate and to provide parliament with data on budget implementation. the text emphasises that the council does not participate in hearings and discussions on the implementation of its budget, which has resulted in more than eur 3 billion of public funds being used without proper checks being ensured. it is only regrettable that the heads of the member states are turning a blind eye to this kind of behaviour by the institution and are not ensuring transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the court of justice of the eu for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors noted in its 2014 annual report that the audit relating to human resources and procurement of the court of justice of the european union did not reveal any significant deficiencies. i support the calls by the court of auditors for further progress in the field of new technologies, so as to further reduce the number of documents printed on paper and the number of interpreters and translators needed without compromising the court's powers, thus ensuring the efficient use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament underlines that the court of auditors noted in its 2014 annual report that the audit on the human resources and procurement of the court of justice of the european union had not identified any significant weaknesses. parliament considers that all information relating to the external activities of all judges should be made available to the general public and therefore requests that this information be published on the website of the court of justice and included in the court's annual activity reports. parliament also called on the court of justice to make progress in the field of new technologies in order to further reduce the number of documents printed on paper and the number of interpreters and translators needed without undermining the court's powers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the strengths and weaknesses of the implementation of the court's 2014 budget. in 2014, the court of justice's appropriations available amounted to eur 355 367 500 and its implementation rate was 99%. despite this result, the report also contains some worrying facts. to date, no declaration of financial interests of judges has been published on the website of the court of justice. equally important, the court of justice spent a total of eur 2 434 599 on the salaries of drivers. the notification clearly indicates that this is an excessive cost, contrary to the general tendency in the union institutions to limit the use of official vehicles.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the court of auditors of the european union. in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as to its audited entities, the audit of the court's annual accounts is carried out by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl. the court of auditors has a very important role to play in ensuring that european funds are used better and more wisely. the reform project of the court of auditors launched at the end of 2014 is to be welcomed, as it aims to simplify the audit process, to transform the court into a task-based organisation and to increase the workload of the staff. i agree with the calls for the court of auditors to inform the discharge authority of the objectives achieved and the impact of this reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the draft reform of the court of auditors launched at the end of 2014 to simplify the audit process, to make the court of auditors a task-based organisation and to increase the workload of staff. parliament welcomed the efforts of the court of auditors to improve the gender balance of its staff and welcomed the increase in the number of female auditors, which would undoubtedly have an impact on the increasing number of women in positions of responsibility in the sector and on the creation of a network of female auditors. welcomes also the efforts of the court of auditors in relation to the professional training of auditors to ensure more effective knowledge management and updating of knowledge;
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, which assesses the implementation of the court's 2014 budget. the court of auditors' final appropriations for 2014 totalled eur 133 498 000 and the overall budget implementation rate was 98,8%. the budget implementation improved compared to 2013. the court also focused more on the training of staff, managed to reduce the cost of translation and invested in the development of a paperless environment.
in writing. ‒ 2. i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 to be given to the european economic and social committee of the european union. the court concluded that there were no significant errors in payments related to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies in the year ended 31 december 2014, but is concerned about the shortcomings identified by the european economic and social committee (eesc) in four out of 15 procurement procedures audited. i agree with the court's comments on the establishment of a dedicated public procurement support service to assist all ec directorates in the field of public procurement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the results of the audit carried out, the court of auditors concluded that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014. parliament took note of the efforts made by the european economic and social committee (eesc) to increase its visibility through an effective information and communication policy. it welcomes the focus on how to strengthen cooperation between the institutions to improve communication and visibility, and on how to develop the activities of the members of the institutions at national level, and encourages the eesc to continue to work in this direction. parliament will therefore welcome any further efforts by the eesc to improve the provision of information and thus increase transparency.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the european economic and social committee's budget for 2014. the budget of the committee for 2014 was eur 128 559 380 and its utilisation rate was 95,6%. the committee's budget decreased by 1,19% compared to the 2013 annual budget. the report also notes a number of disturbing facts: the total amount of travel expenses and allowances paid to beneficiaries of the committee 1 represented a significant proportion of the total budget and amounted to eur 17 375 864. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of the candidate countries in the union's programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that no significant deficiencies were identified in the areas audited relating to the committee of the regions' human resources and procurement. in addition, all payments related to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that no significant weaknesses had been identified in the audited areas relating to the human resources and procurement of the committee of the regions. parliament called for the inclusion of the committee of the regions' building policy in the committee's annual activity report, in particular in view of the importance of properly rationalising and avoiding overspending on such a policy. parliament also asked for a detailed breakdown of the budgetary resources saved or used more as a result of the cooperation agreement to be made available in the mid-term review by institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report to approve the committee of the regions' 2014 budget. in 2014, the committee had a budget of eur 87 600 000 and an implementation rate of 98,5%. the communication highlights a number of inaccuracies and irregularities resulting from poor budget implementation or non-compliance with the recommendations of the rules. the fact that the committee's resources were reallocated between budget lines 13 times in the financial year 2014 is also significant. this shows, in essence, that the budget planning was not properly carried out.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european external action service for the financial year 2014. the court found that the implementation of the eeas budget continued to be free from significant error and that the overall administrative budget error rate was 0,5%. the court of auditors did not identify any significant weaknesses in the systems selected and in the annual activity report. i support calls for the eeas to improve its monitoring systems to provide timely updates on the personal situation of workers, which may affect the calculation of family benefits. it also calls on the eeas to continue its efforts to support and monitor the implementation of procurement rules and procedures in delegations by providing access to advice, training and guidance from the headquarters, in particular on procurement of security services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on the european external action service (eeas) to improve its monitoring systems to provide timely updates on the personal situation of workers, which may affect the calculation of family benefits. it calls on the eeas to continue its efforts to support and monitor the implementation of procurement rules and procedures in delegations by providing access to advice, training and guidance from the headquarters, in particular on procurement of security services. parliament notes that the eeas is now fully responsible for all administrative costs related to the activities of delegations, except for those in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states. it also recalls that the proper budgetary procedure and, in particular, the simplification of the budget structure remain one of the key challenges in the short term in order to simplify financial procedures and help consolidate the functioning of the eeas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the office for 2014 was eur 518,6 million (i.e. an increase of 1,9% compared to the previous financial year). one of the aspects of importance for lithuania is that the balance between staff from the member states and from the union institutions has not yet been achieved in this service. this is particularly important for heads of delegation, among whom far too many member states' diplomats 59 out of 128 heads of delegation are from member states (i.e. 46%), and of these only 20 are from the member states that acceded to the union in 2004, 2007 and 2013.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the internal control standards are being successfully implemented, as shown by the findings of the internal survey carried out in 2014 at the eeas headquarters and in the delegations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concludes, on the basis of its audit, that there were no material errors in the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2014 under the audit. i agree with the court's call for the ombudsman's institution to respect the principle of transparency, in particular when defining and clarifying the scope of its responsibilities, and to ensure that the ombudsman's website is regularly updated and presents the institution's organisational structure in a realistic manner.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the fact that the number of studies completed compared to the number of studies still in progress at the end of the previous financial year has reached a record high (1.4 studies completed and one study under way, compared to the target of 1.1 studies completed). parliament called on the ombudsman to respect the principle of transparency, in particular when defining and clarifying the scope of his duties, and to ensure that the ombudsman's website is regularly updated and presents the institution's organisational structure in a realistic manner. parliament also welcomes the savings made in the translation and publications budget lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the european ombudsman's budget for the financial year 2014. the ombudsman's budget was purely administrative and amounted to eur 9 857 002 in 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. it is worrying that the number of secondments of staff of the ombudsman's office between brussels and strasbourg in 2014 was indeed high a total of 212, costing eur 126 000 and an estimated eur 60 000 more due to lost working time during the journey. the ombudsman's recruitment policy, which employs temporary staff on short-term contracts without having undergone any selection procedure, is also a cause for concern.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budgetary year to the european data protection supervisor. the court of auditors concludes that the full administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the year was covered without material error and that the administrative and other expenditure monitoring and control systems audited were effective. i agree with the court of auditors' calls for supervisory officials to provide detailed information on the missions carried out by members and staff, including the cost of each mission, by the end of may 2016. this would ensure that eu funds are used in an appropriate and accountable manner for society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament reiterates its request last year that the european data protection supervisor (hereinafter referred to as the supervisor) draw up a table detailing all the human resources under his/her control, broken down by category, gender and nationality. notes furthermore that this table is to be automatically included in the annual activity report of the supervisor and therefore calls on the supervisor to provide parliament with the table of all human resources referred to in this paragraph in the annual activity report for 2015. parliament also calls on the supervisor to provide detailed information on the missions carried out by members and staff, including the cost of each mission, in the annual activity report by the end of may 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2014. the total budget allocated to the supervisor in 2014 was eur 8 012 953, compared to eur 7 661 409 in 2013. the budget implementation rate was 92% compared to 84,7% in 2013. the document notes that parliament is not provided with much information on the use of the budget. there is also a lack of publicity in other areas, such as very little information on procurement procedures and contractor selection criteria. the authority has also concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 in respect of the activities, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the number of agencies has increased significantly over the past decade, from 3 in 2000 to 32 in 2014. it is of particular importance to ensure the independence of the agencies and to ensure that they can effectively carry out their role of assisting the commission in the management of union programmes on behalf of the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the guidelines for interinstitutional procurement procedures and the participation of agencies in the procurement procedures of the commission. recognises that the creation of synergies and joint procurement procedures based on a common approach could bring additional benefits not only to the agencies but also to the commission. parliament also calls on all agencies to use the framework to be established following the conclusion of the new interinstitutional agreement on the mandatory transparency register and to use it as a reference tool for their interaction with organisations and self-employed individuals involved in eu policy-making and policy implementation in order to make lobbying more transparent. calls on the agencies to make further efforts and improve their communication policies in order to increase their visibility through various social media tools, to raise awareness of their activities and achievements and to ensure that citizens are well informed about their work;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget for the activities, financial management and control of the eu agencies for the financial year 2014. the budget of the agencies in 2014 was approximately eur 1,9 billion, which is approximately 5% lower than in 2013. it is good to see that the agencies have already met or exceeded the 5% reduction target in line with the interinstitutional agreement. however, there are some disturbing facts. for example, some agencies have more than one headquarters, so it is not clear why funds are allocated to maintain dual headquarters. the problem of budgetary and financial management, which is most common in the 28 agencies, is still the excessive level of carry-over of commitment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2014 budget implementation report for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. the court of auditors notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors that it continues to call on the agency to strengthen its internal controls and to ensure that the internal control measures put in place are effective and help achieve the objectives. it is also necessary to implement codes of conduct and ethical principles in order to foster a common and effective culture of integrity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that in april 2014 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) adopted its revised policy on recruitment procedures and selection of work in groups. notes that the agency has specific conditions for interviews and written tests, as well as strict conditions for ensuring the anonymity of candidates, in order to ensure transparency and equal treatment of its staff; the parliament notes that the review of the state of implementation of the internal control standards of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators did not reveal any apparent weaknesses in 2014. it also called on the agency to further strengthen its internal controls and to ensure that the internal controls put in place are effective and contribute to the achievement of its objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013. the rate of utilisation of payment appropriations in 2014 was 69,84%, i.e. 14,84% higher than in 2013. however, it remains insufficient. it is clear that the agency should continue to improve its annual budget planning and implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2014 budget implementation report for the office of the european regulators for electronic communications. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations described therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for those union institutions and agencies that have adopted codes of conduct, including the european parliament, to improve their implementation tools, such as the verification of declarations of financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the office of the european regulators for electronic communications ('the office') for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial transactions reported were legal and regular. parliament welcomes the fact that in 2014, for the first time since the establishment of the office, it organised a public procurement procedure for a 'network neutrality' study to explore the value of net neutrality for consumers in the union. furthermore, it notes that the final results of the study will be used in the preparation of the bureau's work programme. parliament also notes that a cooperation facility has been set up, which acts as an internal platform for the exchange and sharing of information in order to manage the work of the preparatory bodies more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the office of the european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014. the office's budget for 2014 was eur 3 617 948, representing an increase of 1,74%, compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 is 97,91%, which is one of the best results of the office's last year. the activities of the office in the areas of public procurement, compliance with recruitment procedures and internal control are also to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the report on the implementation of the 2014 budget for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. the court also argues that the centre's annual reports could play an important role in ensuring transparency, and i therefore support the court's calls for the centre to include a standard chapter on these principles in its annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (the centre) is interested in improving its quality assurance and feedback system for translations and that the centre has organised a workshop for freelance translators to introduce them to the centre's working methods. parliament welcomes the fact that the centre has started to use the new budget planning and monitoring tool used for the preparation of the 2015 budget, the new translation workflow management system e-cdt and the new computer-assisted translation tool. the parliament also notes that in 2014 the centre launched an adaptation project focusing on improving the adaptability of staff and reducing identified skills gaps. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union has drawn up a list of lecturers and has started to implement the training actions set out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 79,34%, i.e. 4,13% lower than in 2013. despite the poor implementation of the budget, the centre made a major effort to improve the management of funds and the quality of its work introduced a new budget planning and monitoring tool, shared services with other agencies to ensure interoperability, and harmonised the relevant working procedures, thus ensuring transparency and efficiency in the process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court noted that it had received reasonable assurance that the college's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected in them were legal and regular. i agree with the court that the centre should help member states facing problems with the increase in the number of refugees to take advantage of vocational training opportunities to integrate refugees into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the measures taken by the european centre for the development of vocational training (the 'centre') in response to the court of auditors' observations last year and to parliament's recommendations. the european centre for the development of vocational training adopted in october 2014 an anti-fraud strategy based on the commission's common approach to the decentralised agencies of the european union, which aims to support the effective prevention and detection of fraud risks and to strengthen the relevant internal procedures for the examination and reporting of potential fraud cases and their outcomes. parliament considers that the centre's annual reports could play an important role in ensuring compliance with the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity and calls on the centre to include a standard chapter on these principles in its annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 275 766, representing a decrease of 3,62% compared to the 2013 budget year, with an implementation rate of 98,93%, as in 2013. the centre has focused on activities contributing to the policy to tackle youth unemployment. the centre has clearly demonstrated its ability to forecast and analyse data relating to the development of manufacturing practices. it is also important that the data provided by the centre were reflected in the 2014 country-specific recommendations provided in the framework of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of the 2014 budget implementation report for the european police college. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received sufficient assurance that the college's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court that the college should apply stricter measures relating to discretion and exclusion from public procurement, i.e. carry out appropriate checks in all cases and apply rejection criteria to reject companies' applications in case of conflict of interest, as this is essential to protect the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament, on the basis of the annual report of the european police college (hereinafter referred to as college), acknowledges that all audit recommendations made by the internal audit service have been taken into account. it notes that the internal audit service, having received information on the improvements made by the college, confirmed that the actions on two of its recommendations are complete and that feedback on the remaining three recommendations will be provided following another review of the documentation or further audit. parliament calls on the college to inform the discharge authority of the results of the review as soon as they are available. it also welcomes the fact that in 2014, the board of the european police college entrusted its accounting services to the commission in order to reduce administrative costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. the implementation rate of the college's 2014 budget is 97,40%, i.e. 2,51% higher than in 2013. in view of the reliability of the college's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected therein, there were no grounds for disagreeing with the report. it is true that the report contains important remarks which the college should take into account.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received sufficient assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations they reflect are legal and regular, but that the focus is on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and on transparency. i support the court's call for improving the overall prevention of and fight against corruption, with a holistic approach to this end, starting with greater access to documents for the public and stricter rules on the identification of conflicts of interest, the establishment or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for the implementation of law enforcement measures, as well as ensuring better cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament stresses that the european aviation safety agency (the 'agency') plays a vital role in ensuring the highest possible level of aviation safety throughout europe. it acknowledges that 2014 was a difficult year for the agency and aviation safety in general, with a number of aircraft accidents, which required the agency to implement and maintain new measures on flight time restrictions. parliament stresses that, in view of the rapid growth of the aviation sector, the european aviation safety agency should be provided with the necessary financial, material and human resources to successfully carry out its regulatory and executive tasks in the field of safety and environmental protection, while maintaining its independence and impartiality. parliament points out that the objective of the agency is aviation safety and urges the agency to incorporate this objective into its strategy, result-oriented budgeting and management decisions as a guiding principle for the stakeholders involved in the agency, which should never be sacrificed for the sake of competitiveness, efficiency or deregulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 181 179 098, representing an increase of 8,47% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 97,1%, i.e. 0,9% lower than in 2013. it should be noted that public sector funding accounts for only one third of the agency's budget, with the remaining two thirds coming from business entities. it should be noted that the agency plays a very important role in ensuring the highest possible level of aviation safety throughout europe. its work is particularly relevant to the assessment of the growing aviation sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european asylum support office. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, the court notes that the office is subject to a high degree of staff turnover. in 2014, 14 staff members left the office, including 4 in key positions, and i agree with the court that such a high level of staff turnover poses a significant risk to the achievement of the objectives set out in the office's annual and multiannual programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office (hereinafter 'the office') for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. parliament called for the prevention of and fight against corruption to be improved in general by adopting a holistic approach, starting with greater public access to documents and stricter rules on the identification of conflicts of interest, the establishment or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for the implementation of law enforcement measures, as well as ensuring better cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014. the office's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 15 663 975. the office's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 84,69%, i.e. 2,65% lower than in 2013. the concern is that 1 062 payments, i.e. 28,6% of payments, were made after the deadline set in the financial regulation. the average delay in payments by the office also increased by three days to 24 days compared to 2013 and 2014. the office is also facing a significant risk of staff turnover, which threatens the achievement of the objectives set out in the office's annual and multiannual programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions reported therein were legal and regular. i support the calls for public procurement from the court of auditors, as the institution must strictly apply measures relating to discretion and exclusion from public procurement, i.e. carry out appropriate checks in all cases and apply rejection criteria to reject companies' applications in case of conflict of interest, as this is essential to protect the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament stresses that the role of the european banking authority (the 'authority') in promoting a single supervisory regime in the internal market is crucial to ensuring financial stability, a better integrated, more efficient and secure financial market in the european union and a high level of consumer protection by promoting fairness and transparency in the market for products and financial services. notes that the european banking authority works closely with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority in order to reduce administrative costs, promote synergies and share best practices where possible, in all supporting functions; parliament also expects the authority to make greater efforts to improve cooperation with other decentralised agencies.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 599 863, representing an increase of 29,39% compared to 2013 due to its recent establishment. the authority's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,81%, representing an increase of 2,28% compared to 2013. the role of the authority in promoting a single supervisory regime in the internal market is essential to ensure financial stability, a better integrated, more efficient and secure financial market in the union and a high level of consumer protection. it is a matter of concern that, despite the many innovations being introduced, the authority is not inclined to genuine cooperation. in certain cases, documents have been transmitted to the union legislator only after they have been leaked to the general public, which is unacceptable.
in writing. i approve the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts were reliable and that the operations described therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors that the centre should continue to make efforts to reduce the level of commitment appropriations carried over to future periods as much as possible in the future, taking all available measures to this end, for example by applying best practices from other agencies.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the creation and launch of the tool 'atlas of infectious diseases surveillance' (hereinafter 'the atlas') on the website of the european centre for disease prevention and control (hereinafter 'the centre'). it notes that by the end of 2014, the centre had already published data at eu level and some international data on four diseases through this atlas and calls on the centre to continue this project. parliament regrets, however, that the communication activities of the european centre for disease prevention and control were largely limited to the publication of information on the centre's website and that the centre was not considered by the eu media as the main source of information. parliament therefore calls on the european centre for disease prevention and control to take measures to improve its visibility in the media.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 60 486 000, representing an increase of 3,72% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 98,77%, representing an increase of 5,81% compared to the previous year. the centre is pleased to devote 75.5% of its human resources to its core activities. his work is of great importance both in the eu and beyond. for example, during the ebola crisis, well over 100 staff at the centre worked to prepare the eu-wide response to the ebola crisis. this work was one of the key factors in helping to manage the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2014 budget implementation report for the agency for chemicals. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, the court notes the difficulties that the agency will face in not having financial reserves and in seeking to obtain additional subsidies in the year when the financial revenue from the biocidal products levy will be lower than expected. i therefore share the court's concern that if this situation continues and it does not receive increased subsidies, it will be very difficult for it to continue to meet all its non-tax obligations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament draws attention to the fact that the european chemicals agency (hereinafter referred to as the agency) has four scientific committees set up by the original regulation, which issue formal opinions and recommendations. it notes that these committees are composed of experts, many of whom are public officials proposed or appointed by the member states, and that stakeholders are only allowed to participate as observers. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the financial statements of the union institutions and bodies, the annual accounts of the european parliament and the council, the annual accounts of the european investment bank and the annual accounts of the european investment bank and the european investment bank for the financial year 2012 were not available; the parliament also notes that the internal fraud risk assessment carried out before the adoption of the strategy revealed a low risk profile for the agency. the main objective of that strategy is therefore to develop a broad anti-fraud culture within the european chemicals agency, with a focus on raising awareness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 114 112 193, representing an increase of 6,37% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 97,08% and the payment appropriations utilisation rate was 87,46%, representing an increase of 3,28% in the payment appropriations execution rate compared to 2013. the agency is doing very well in terms of human resources management. the agency's recruitment target for 2014 was met and 97% of temporary posts and 94% of contract posts were filled by the end of that year. more importantly, the agency devotes 78% of its human resources to its core activities.
in writing. ‒ 15. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors on the common call to improve the prevention of and fight against corruption, to take a holistic approach, starting with greater access to documents for the public and stricter rules on the identification of conflicts of interest, establishing or strengthening transparency registers and providing sufficient resources for the implementation of law enforcement measures, as well as ensuring better cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has declared that the operations reported in the annual accounts of the european environment agency (hereinafter 'the agency') for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects. notes that the commission has not yet published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the control of emissions from ships and aircraft; it asks the responsible body of the european environment agency to draw up and adopt an anti-fraud strategy as soon as possible. in addition, parliament recommends that the executive director of the european environment agency be given discharge for the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, on the basis of the data available.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 52 573 071, representing an increase of 6,70% compared to the 2013 budget. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,19% and the payment appropriations implementation rate was 87,19%. the agency has reduced its staff in line with the principles laid down in the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline. the commission has therefore concluded that the measure constitutes state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the adoption by the management board of the agency of the agency's anti-fraud strategy in november 2014 to ensure the proper resolution of conflicts of interest and to develop anti-fraud activities is also to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors that the agency needs to improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to contribute actively to the results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. in the attached resolution, parliament noted that the budget monitoring actions carried out in the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,09%, thus reaching the agency's target, an increase of 0,45% compared to 2013, and noted that the payment appropriations execution rate was 88,43%, thus reaching the agency's target, an increase of 4,58% compared to 2013. in its resolution, the parliament also noted that the agency had adopted, in october 2014, its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, which requires the members of the agency's administrative board and the agency's senior staff to make a declaration of conflicts of interest, which had been made and made public.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 217 150. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,09%, thus reaching the agency's target and representing an increase of 0,45% compared to 2013. the agency has made a significant contribution to the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy. however, it is essential to ensure continuous monitoring and proper coordination of these objectives in order to ensure their implementation in the future. the future increase in the agency's financial and human resources is therefore likely to be inevitable. it is also important that the agency works closely with the member states, thereby improving fisheries control and surveillance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual reports were reliable and that the operations described therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for the office to apply strict measures relating to discretion and exclusion from public procurement, to carry out appropriate checks in all cases and to apply exclusion criteria so that in the event of any conflict of interest, the applications of companies are rejected, as this is essential to protect the financial interests of the union. the claim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european food safety authority that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. in the attached resolution, parliament also notes that the office has launched a project to improve the efficiency and compliance of the execution of operations through a centralised strategy, providing for planning, control and reporting processes and structures, and centralised financial and procurement processes and structures. the project will also allow the office to perform its mandate more efficiently, with less time and staff involved in delivering results - resulting in a reduction of staff of 14 posts in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the office's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 79 701 222, representing an increase of 2,11% compared to the 2013 budget. the office's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,69%, representing an increase of 0,86% compared to 2013. despite various steps to increase the transparency of the office's work, very little has been done. this is reflected in the report. the office is unable or unwilling to give the public and politicians access to key documents, and there are major problems with declarations of interests. i think the report could have been more critical, but there are also very important aspects in the present text.
in writing. ‒ 18. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, i agree with the court's call for the institute to develop its own procedures and practices aimed at safeguarding the financial interests of the union and to contribute actively to a results-oriented budgetary policy. the process of its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european institute for gender equality that the institute's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. the parliament also noted that the budget monitoring exercise for the financial year 2014 showed a high budget implementation rate of 99,04%, which reflects the timely commitment of commitments and the fact that the payment appropriations were used up by 1,75% to 71,91% compared to the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. the institute's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 7 340 081, i.e. 3,08% lower than the 2013 budget. the institute's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,04%. the institute regularly consults the parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, participates in the commission (eurostat) working groups, and works closely with the european union agency for fundamental rights and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european insurance and occupational pensions institute for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors states in its report that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for the prevention, management and enhancement of transparency of conflicts of interest, i.e. the authority should follow the example of the european banking authority in seeking greater transparency and publish all its meetings with stakeholders who are third parties. they are individuals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the transactions reported are legal and regular. in its resolution, parliament recalls that in 2011, at the end of the financial crisis, the european parliament was one of the main supporters of the creation of a new comprehensive european system of financial supervisors (esfs) and of the authority as part of the esfs. stresses, furthermore, that the role of the authority in improving the overall supervisory regime in the internal market is crucial to ensure financial stability, a better integrated, transparent, efficient and secure financial market in the union and a high level of consumer protection; it should also be borne in mind that the authority is only carrying out work of a technical nature and that the union legislator has the prerogative to take the most important political decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 21 582 772, representing an increase of 15% compared to 40% in 2013. the budget of the authority shall consist of funds received from the union budget. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 100%, thus achieving the authority's planned target and representing an increase of 3,26% compared to 2013. despite the fact that the institution did not submit all the necessary documents to parliament, its budget execution figures speak for themselves. equally important, the institution also fulfilled its staffing plan to 100%. a total of 49 recruitment procedures were opened and 27 new staff were recruited, bringing the total number of staff to 129 from 26 nationalities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court stated that it had received reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions described in them were legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for further improvements in certain areas, such as the management of grants, the public procurement system and it, as improvements in these areas would allow for better and more effective reporting of budget implementation. the institution concerned.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology that the institute's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions reported therein are legal and regular, taking into account the court of auditors' report, parliament notes that the 25% overall expenditure ceiling for grants received from the institute for the knowledge and innovation community (kic) was respected during the first five years and that the institute received audit certificates for kic expenditure incurred for additional activities in the period 2010-2014. parliament also notes that it has carried out a review of the portfolio of complementary activities of the jrc to ensure that only those activities are allowed which meet the legal and operational requirements of the complementary activities, including the requirement to link with the value-added activities of the jrc funded by the institute.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. the budget of the institute for 2014 was eur 169 807 303, representing an increase of 81,69% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 94,13%, i.e. 2,84% lower than in 2013. the institute took certain steps to improve its operations and transparency in 2014. the actions implemented resulted in a reduction in staff turnover of the institute to 12% in 2014, compared to 20-25% in the period 2012-2013. the institute's board of governors adopted a comprehensive revision of the code of conduct for board members and published the annual declarations of interests and independence of the institute's board members on the institute's website. it is also welcome that, in order to reduce costs and promote the application of best practices in the field of public procurement, the institute is participating in several interinstitutional procurement procedures organised by the commission.
in writing. i approve the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular, the agency's tax regulation sets deadlines by which fees must be collected from applicants and by which the agency must make the corresponding payments to the national competent authorities. unfortunately, for most of the operations audited by the court, these deadlines were not met, and i therefore agree with the court's call that the agency must take all necessary further action to ensure full compliance with its pharmacovigilance obligations and to effectively inform the discharge authority about the progress of the implementation of the budget. the measures taken to remedy the situation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european medicines agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, the parliament notes, on the basis of the court's report, that the agency's tax regulation sets deadlines by which fees must be collected from applicants and the agency must make the corresponding payments to the national competent authorities. stresses that most of the transactions audited by the court of auditors did not meet these deadlines, but, on the basis of the information provided by the agency, asserts that the agency has restructured and streamlined its core operational processes, including those related to financial authorisations and tax collection, and notes that the agency planned to further automate these processes by the end of 2015. parliament therefore calls on the agency to take all necessary further steps to ensure full compliance with its pharmacovigilance obligations and to effectively inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to remedy the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 282 474 000, representing an increase of 12,29% compared to 12,53% in 2013. the budget of the agency shall be drawn from the union budget. the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 94,32%, i.e. 2,44% lower than in the previous year. the agency has increased the transparency of recruitment procedures by publishing on its website information on the status of external procedures and reserve lists. in december 2014, the management board of the agency adopted an anti-fraud strategy.
in writing. i welcome the court's report that the transactions reported in the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court stated that it had received reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for the centre to improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to contribute actively to the achievement of results-oriented budget implementation. the melting process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's confirmation to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction that the centre's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received a reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions reported were legal and regular. in its resolution, parliament acknowledges that the centre has taken measures to further reduce the need to update technical specifications in the context of calls for tender and to ensure that information is provided more effectively to all parties concerned where such updates are necessary, by publishing more detailed notices on its website to that end. welcomes the fact that the centre's report on the final annual accounts for 2014 provides detailed information on the corrective actions taken by the centre in response to the observations and recommendations made by the court of auditors, the budgetary authority and the commission's internal audit service (ias), and notes the centre's efforts to implement the recommendations of the court of auditors and the ias audit in order to improve its governance and internal control systems;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the budget of the centre for the financial year 2014 was eur 15 675 036, representing a decrease of 3,88% compared to 93,4% in 2013. the budget of the centre shall be drawn from the union budget. the budget implementation rate for the centre for the financial year 2014 was 99,62% and the utilisation rate of payment appropriations was 94,93%, i.e. 2,78% lower than in 2013. it is of concern that, although the centre has published the declarations of interests of its board members, the declarations of interests of the director and senior management of the centre are not published. however, the centre shall make every effort to ensure the proper use of the budget and the clarity and transparency of internal procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the operations reflected therein were legal and regular, but regretted that, in the light of the agency's new legal framework, the level of commitment appropriations used in 2014 was below the 95% target set by the commission and that the commission therefore had to adopt a budget for 2016 that was not fully implemented. i agree with the court's call for the need to identify and explain why the agency failed to reach its 95% target and to encourage the agency to improve its budget implementation and to reduce the level of non-compliance to the level of the commission. its established ceilings.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. in an accompanying resolution, parliament welcomed the fact that the court of auditors had not submitted any observations on the agency's financial management in 2014 and welcomed the fact that the agency had taken a physical inventory of its administrative equipment. however, parliament calls on the agency to speed up its work to improve accounting procedures and information on costs relating to intangible assets created within the institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 52 403 276, representing a decrease of 9,37% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 94,78% and the utilisation rate of payment appropriations was 93,77%. the agency makes a major contribution to maritime safety, the prevention of pollution from ships in europe and the assistance provided to member states and the commission in accordance with international and union law.
in writing. ‒ 24. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. the court notes that the agency has taken into account the recommendations and adopted internal policy measures to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental performance of its premises. the 'paperless' system and the 'workflow management' and 'internal document storage' platform have helped the agency to move away from paper documents and into the virtual space.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. in the attached resolution, parliament welcomes the fact that, according to the agency's annual activity report and the court of auditors' conclusions, the level and nature of transfers remained in line with the financial rules in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 708 297, representing an increase of 0,39% compared to 2013. the agency's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was high at 100% and the payment appropriations utilisation rate was 85,61%. the agency is facing challenges. in particular, it has difficulty in attracting and retaining suitably qualified staff for its activities, mainly because its office is located in crete, where international education is a problematic factor. another problem is the failure to implement recommendations. at the beginning of 2014, the agency had not yet implemented 25 recommendations made in previous reports by the commission's internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors' call for the agency to work more actively with the member states to increase the number and improve the quality of rail projects, in particular ertms projects, proposed under the transport programme of the european infrastructure networks instrument (eitp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european railway agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, in its resolution, parliament drew the agency's attention to the fact that the amount of commitment appropriations carried over in the future should be kept to a minimum in order to better ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 715 600, representing a decrease of 0,55 per cent compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 97,34%, which is 0,53% lower than in 2013. the agency is faced with additional costs for its two locations. it is good that the report clearly identifies this situation as a waste of european union taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 to the european securities and markets authority. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, the court notes that the authority does not provide information to parliament, although that information about the authority could have been accessed by interested parties in member states or third countries, and i therefore support the court's call for the authority to take effective measures to prevent this maladministration and to apply a level playing field between parliament and the member states as regards the content of the information to be disclosed and the timing of its disclosure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the transactions reported are legal and regular. the court's report states that the fees charged by the authority to its supervised entities and reported as revenue in the final report on financial performance were based on estimated rather than actual costs of supervisory activities. the parliament acknowledged that in 2014 the authority developed a performance-based cost accounting model that allows for a precise control of the costs of its supervisory activities and that the authority has been applying this model since 2015 and that therefore the supervisory fees are calculated on the basis of actual costs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 267 143, representing an increase of 18,02% compared to 2013. the authority's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 98,89%, i.e. 5,71% higher than in 2013. the authority is encouraged to take various actions in 2014 to address the problem of late payments, which accounted for 27% of all payments for goods and services received in 2013. it is also important that the authority endeavours to ensure transparency of its activities by publishing on its website the cvs and declarations of interests of the authority's senior management, the members of its supervisory board with voting rights and the members of the securities and markets stakeholder group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the court stated in its report that it had received sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the fund were reliable and that the operations reflected therein were legal and regular. i agree with the court's call for the foundation to continue to raise awareness of the conflict of interest policy amongst staff, alongside the ongoing awareness-raising activities, and to include the issue of fairness and transparency as a mandatory issue in the recruitment and performance review discussions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european training foundation that the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. in its report on the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the fund were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. parliament welcomes the fact that, following the signing of an agreement with the authorities of the piedmont region (italy) in march 2013 on the foundation's premises, the foundation has carried out exceptional work on the maintenance of the premises and has taken direct control of internal systems such as water, gas and electricity, while the overall systems continue to be jointly managed and supervised by the regional authorities. notes with satisfaction that in july 2015 the foundation and the piedmont region signed a new premises agreement covering the period 2016-2018;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the budget of the fund for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 158 053, representing an increase of 0,07% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate of the fund for the financial year 2014 was high at 99,90%. i agree with the report that the fund must improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and actively contribute to the results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 for the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the financial operations covered by them were legal and regular. i support the court of auditors' call for the agency to take stricter measures in relation to freedom of action and exclusion from public procurement. in all cases, the agency shall ensure and carry out appropriate checks and apply rejection criteria to reject the applications of companies in any case where there is a conflict of interest, as this is necessary to protect the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the european area of freedom, security and justice that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the european area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the financial transactions reported therein were legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 59 380 000, representing a decrease of 3,2% compared to 2013. the agency's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 99,32% and the utilisation rate of payment appropriations was 99,14%. i fully agree that the agency needs to improve its prevention and fight against corruption. it is necessary to increase public access to documents, to introduce stricter rules on the identification of conflicts of interest, to establish transparency registers and to provide sufficient resources for the implementation of law enforcement measures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. i support the court of auditors' call for the agency to improve the prevention of and fight against corruption in general and to adopt a holistic approach, starting with greater access to documents for the public and stricter rules on the identification of conflicts of interest, the establishment or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for the implementation of law enforcement measures, as well as ensuring better cooperation between member states and with relevant third parties.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, noted that it had received a reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. notes that the agency completed five recruitment procedures in 2014, one is ongoing and three more are planned for 2015 and acknowledges that all current recruitment procedures are aimed at replacing outgoing staff or concluding temporary employment contracts to fill the places of staff absent due to long-term illness or maternity leave; notes that the court of auditors did not make any comments on the agency's recruitment procedures in its 2014 annual report;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 256 026, representing a decrease of 1,17% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 98,65% and the payment appropriations implementation rate was 75,59%. the agency should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states and to the commission in order to ensure that the agency is able to fulfil its tasks. i agree that the agency's annual reports could play an important role in respecting the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity and that it is therefore necessary to include a chapter on those aspects in the annual reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2014 budget implementation report for the euratom supply agency. the court stated in its report that it had received sufficient assurance that these annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. however, the court of auditors rejects the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity applied in the agency's annual report and i therefore support the court of auditors' call for the union institutions and agencies to include a standard chapter on these principles in their annual reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director-general of the euratom supply agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that those annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 were based on the assumptions made in the court's report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014; parliament also acknowledges that the agency has established an appropriate risk management and control strategy and has taken all the necessary steps in relation to risk assessment and mitigation to align its internal control system with the requirements of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the easa's implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 104 000, the same as in 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 91,08%, i.e. 3,92% lower than in 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the agency's main annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were not subject to any observations and were approved by the court of auditors.
in writing. - 32 years. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the fund were reliable and that the financial operations covered by them were legal and regular. however, the court is concerned that only half of the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the fund's board of directors are available on the fund's website, and i therefore support the court's urgent call for the members of the fund's board of directors to provide these documents without delay, thus increasing the transparency of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions that the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. parliament welcomes the corrective actions taken by the fund in relation to the concerns raised by the court of auditors regarding the physical inventory and registration of fixed assets. notes with concern that the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014 was published in oj c 316, 4.11.2014, p.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the fund for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 774 000, representing an increase of 0,73% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate of the fund for the financial year 2014 was 99,66% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 79,80%. the foundation is involved in three major european surveys: the quality of life in europe survey, the working conditions in europe survey and the european companies survey. his work has been important in assessing the impact of the crisis on working and living conditions. despite the important work, efforts to ensure the publicity of the fund are still lacking. for example, only half of the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the foundation's board of directors are publicly available on its website.
in writing. i welcome the research carried out by the fund and the valuable comparative information it provides, and note its great importance in ensuring evidence-based debate on social and labour-related policy issues; i stress the particular importance of ongoing cooperation between the fund and the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget for eurojust. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that eurojust's annual accounts were reliable and that the financial operations carried out thereunder were legal and regular. however, at the court's request, eurojust should develop its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and contribute actively to the results-oriented discharge process. i agree with the court of auditors and believe that this will ensure the efficient use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's confirmation to the director of the eurojust administration that the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances that eurojust's annual accounts were reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder were legal and regular. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 were based on the assumptions made in the court's report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the european judicial cooperation unit for the financial year 2014. the budget of the unit for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 667 239, representing an increase of 4,04% compared to 2013. the implementation rate of the fund for the financial year 2014 was 99,82%, an increase of 0,21% compared to 2013, while the rate of utilisation of payment appropriations was 87,31%, a decrease of 2,34% compared to 2013. i agree that the financial impact of the salary adjustment and the increase in the correction coefficient is a matter of serious concern as it was not included in the initial budget for the financial year 2014. as a result, the shortfall in the salary budget of approximately eur 1 800 000 at the end of the year required temporary cuts in operating expenditure and the transfer of large amounts of appropriations from the budget lines for administration and operations. it shouldn't happen again.
in writing. i welcome the fact that eurojust will assess the use of differentiated appropriations to ensure the financing of its operational activities; furthermore, i note that these initiatives have been taken in consultation with the commission's directorate-general for justice and consumers and directorate-general for budget; i encourage eurojust to inform the discharge authority of the results of this initiative and the measures taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the report on the implementation of the 2014 budget for the european police office (europol). the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, i agree with the court of auditors that the office should pay particular attention to the protection of whistleblowers in the light of the forthcoming adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european police office that the office's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014 ('the court of auditors' report'), stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. in its resolution, parliament also noted that the court of auditors' report indicates that the significant improvement in budget monitoring activities has led to a budget implementation rate of 99,70% for the financial year 2014, which shows that commitments were made in a timely manner and that the payment appropriations execution rate increased by 2,80% compared to the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the office's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 84 339 820, representing an increase of 2,20% compared to 2013. the office achieved a budget implementation rate of 99,70% for the financial year 2014. the office has done a great deal to ensure publicity: it has made its consolidated annual activity report public on its website, the cvs of the director of the office, the deputy directors and the declarations on the independent performance of duties and responsibilities have been published on the office's website.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court of auditors stated that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. however, i support calls for the agency to develop its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to the results-oriented discharge process and to improve the prevention of and fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. in its resolution, parliament noted that budget monitoring had resulted in a 100% budget implementation rate in the 2014 financial year, as in the previous year, and that the payment appropriations utilisation rate was 69,45%, i.e. 0,82% lower than in the previous year, and noted that the overall high level of committed appropriations reflected the timely commitment of commitments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 21 229 000, representing a decrease of 0,56%, compared to 2013. the office's budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 was 100%, as in the previous year. the agency has a good reputation for ensuring the visibility and publicity of its activities. the only concern is that the agency has been repeatedly held accountable for the misconduct of whistleblowers. to address this problem, it is necessary to raise awareness among employees of the conflict of interest policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, based on the court's report, it is noted that the high and constantly increasing number of grant agreements and the scale of the related costs to be verified and compensated by the agency indicate that a more efficient and cost-effective alternative mechanism for the financing of the agency's operational activities could be applied, and i therefore agree with the court's call that the agency should review and restructure its financing mechanism in the light of the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. parliament acknowledges, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, that important positive developments have been identified in the ex ante and ex post checks of the countries requesting reimbursement of expenditure under grant agreements. acknowledges also that the agency started to apply a more comprehensive risk-based ex ante control system in june 2013 requiring the submission of selected supporting documents together with the final payment request; notes furthermore that the ex ante control system is complemented by ex post controls, carried out on the beneficiaries' premises or in the form of documentary checks, and that payments not subject to ex ante controls are subject to ex post controls;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 97 945 077, representing an increase of 4,25% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 98,65%, representing an increase of 0,9% compared to 2013. the implementation rate for payment appropriations was 68,79%, i.e. 4,81% higher than in 2013. the court of auditors' report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 acknowledges that important positive developments have been identified in the ex ante and ex post checks of the costs claimed by the cooperating parties under the grant agreements. however, the court found that the documentation supporting the expenditure declared by the parties was not always sufficient, as the agency did not require audit certificates providing additional assurance on the legality and regularity of grant operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, i agree with the court of auditors that it is necessary to increase integrity and to improve the ethics framework better implement codes of conduct and ethical principles in order to strengthen a common and effective culture of integrity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european gnss agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, noted that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. in its resolution, parliament acknowledges that the agency has sought to reduce the level of carry-overs by committing budgetary appropriations earlier in the year, where possible, and thus enabling earlier payments. notes that the agency is developing a new budget management tool to facilitate the implementation, monitoring and reporting of the general and assigned budgets with a view to improving the management of both commitment and payment appropriations, and calls on the agency to inform the discharge authority of the improvements made following the introduction of this tool;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was allocated a union subsidy of eur 25 369 058, representing an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate for the agency for the financial year 2014 was 99,84%, the same as in 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions reported therein are legal and regular. in this context, i endorsed the report and the comments contained therein, which aim to improve the criteria for the implementation of the agency's budget, as well as for ensuring publicity and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the artemis company for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular. however, the court notes that there is little information available on both non-cash and cash contributions, and i therefore support the court's call for the company to include specific provisions on the valuation procedure and the level of non-cash and cash contributions in its future reports.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, makes too many blanket comments and lacks practical and specific comments; calls, therefore, for an audit with a stronger focus on the annual financial activity, the status of implementation of multiannual projects, including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the year concerned and for the preceding year, and their results and implementation. parliament, on the basis of the court's report, declares that the joint undertaking's accounts for the period 27 june 2014 to 31 december 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. it should be noted that the assessment of the company's budget execution was hampered by the different methodologies used and the lack of detailed information. the joint undertaking has also not taken any action on certain internal control standards related to information and financial reporting, in particular the performance evaluation, the evaluation of internal control systems and the internal audit function. i agree that in the future the company needs to make more efforts to ensure transparency and to enable the court of auditors and parliament to properly assess the use of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the company's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions described therein are legal and regular. however, the european parliament regrets that the court's report contains little information on contributions in kind and in cash, and i therefore agree with the european parliament, which calls on the court to include contributions in kind and in cash in future reports. for the seventh framework programme and for horizon 2020 (which should be presented separately), provisions on the evaluation procedure and level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. it should be noted that the contribution of the european union to the clean sky joint undertaking is limited to eur 800 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme, and to eur 2 1 755 000 000, to be paid from the budget of horizon 2020 and to a maximum of eur 39 000 000 for current expenditure. despite the fact that the eu money only partially supports the activities of the company, the process of using eu taxpayers' money must nevertheless be transparent and well supervised. the court's report is therefore concerned by the over-broad comments and the lack of practical and concrete comments in the report. the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were prepared in accordance with the principles set out in the annual activity report of the joint undertaking. the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2014 was eur 229 241 765, including eur 27 640 836 unused appropriations carried over from 2013. the joint undertaking has implemented eur 189 316 793 (82,58%) of commitment appropriations and eur 153 567 377 (90,19%) of payment appropriations. it is only to be admitted that these indicators do not provide a realistic assessment of the activities and it is therefore necessary to ensure the transmission of more detailed data in the future.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the company's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions described therein are legal and regular. the court welcomes the progress made by the joint undertaking in monitoring and reporting, but i agree with the court that more efforts should be made to cooperate more closely with the commission in order to meet the requirements of horizon 2020 and to contribute more to the dissemination of the results of the seventh framework programme. the joint undertaking should also increase the systematic dissemination of research results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i agree with the statement made in the report that the court of auditors' report on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 contains too many blanket remarks and lacks practical and specific remarks. although the company's implementation rate of its operating commitments was 99,7%, the data needed to assess the company's activities in detail are lacking and it is therefore necessary to ensure that they are provided in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations described therein are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it postpones the adoption by parliament of its decision to certify the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking that the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key nanoelectronics technologies in a wide range of applications. in its resolution, the parliament acknowledges that the joint undertaking's financial statements for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position and the results of operations and cash flows for the period ending on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. is concerned, however, that for the fourth consecutive year, the court of auditors in its report on the annual reports of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 from 1 january to 26 june, has issued a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the operations carried out, on the basis that the administrative agreements with the national financing institutions (nfis) on project cost declarations do not provide for a practical procedure for ex post audits.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors has also found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 were prepared in accordance with the principles laid down in the statute of the court of auditors. the commission also did not provide the necessary information to calculate a reliable weighted average error rate or residual error rate. it should also be noted that the joint undertaking was granted financial autonomy in july 2010 and the eu has committed to contribute to the joint undertaking's budget a maximum of eur 450 000 000 for a period of 10 years. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the findings of the investigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations described therein are legal and regular. however, the court notes that the institutions and bodies are required to submit a report on budgetary and financial management on an annual basis and that the information provided by the fch and fch2 joint undertakings in that report is not harmonised and is often incomplete, and therefore i support the court's call for the commission to provide recommendations on the nature and content of that report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking ii that the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in 2008 as a public-private partnership undertaking to run until 2017 with the aim of developing market-ready products and thus facilitating additional industry efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. in its resolution, parliament notes that the court of auditors makes too many general comments in its 2014 report and too few substantiated and specific ones, and calls for an audit with a stronger focus on the annual financial performance, the state of play of multiannual projects, and a clear presentation of the budgetary execution and the results of the respective and previous years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. despite the positive performance of this company, its financial data are incomplete and incomplete. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. however, information on non-cash and cash contributions and on ex-post audits carried out by kev and kev2 is missing.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, according to the 2014 annual activity report on the transition to the cef2, the main priorities for 2014 were the reinvigoration of the image and the redesign of the website, as well as the improvement of the brand and the increase of visibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 for the innovative medicines initiative ii joint undertaking. the court notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the company's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions described therein are legal and regular. however, the european parliament regrets the lack of information on contributions in kind or in cash and therefore supports the european parliament's call for the court of auditors to include in future reports specific provisions on the evaluation procedure and the level of contributions in kind and in cash set for fp7 and horizon 2020 separately.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative ii joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years to implement the joint technology initiative 'innovative medicines' with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and to achieve the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. in its resolution, parliament noted that the court's report was based on too many general comments and too few substantiated and specific ones, and called for an audit that focused more on the annual financial activity, the state of play of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the year concerned and previous years) and their implementation results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative ii joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the 2014 budget of the joint undertaking provided for an amount of eur 223 000 000 in commitment appropriations and an amount of eur 171 000 000 in payment appropriations. the overall implementation rate for commitment appropriations was 92,4%, compared to 99,5% in 2013, and for payment appropriations 73,9%, compared to 97,5% in 2013. despite the limited data available on the company, it is encouraging that the company is making efforts to avoid conflicts of interest. the declarations of interests of the executive director and the staff of the joint undertaking, the biographies of the members of the governing board and the scientific committee, and the names of the members of the states representatives group have been made publicly available on its website. the company also strives to improve its operations it has taken into account all the recommendations of the commission's performance and reporting audit carried out by the internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. the court notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurance that the company's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions described therein are legal and regular. however, the court notes that the joint undertaking has not yet adopted all the rules for the implementation of the provisions of the office in order to avoid the legal vacuum that would arise while waiting for the adoption of the rules for the implementation of the provisions of the office which are not yet officially in force, and therefore i agree with the court's call for the joint undertaking to inform the discharge authority of the progress and status of implementation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it postpones the adoption of parliament's decision to confirm to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, notes that the joint undertaking's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position for the year 2014 and the results of related operations and cash flows, as required by the provisions of its financial rules; notes with concern that the complexity of the joint undertaking's activities entails a high risk of an increase in the amount of the joint undertaking's contribution to the construction phase of the project; the parliament notes that this risk is mainly due to the changes in the scope of the project results and delays under the current timetable, which is considered unrealistic, and that the new iter organisation action plan, covering the scope of activities, timetable and costs, to be developed by the iter organisation council, was scheduled to be submitted in june 2015, but was postponed until november 2015 and is now expected to be submitted in mid-2016. the parliament also notes that the joint undertaking estimated during the audit that the construction phase of the project is delayed by at least 43 months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i think the main point of this report is related to the delay in the construction of the project, which will lead to an increase in its cost. the commission notes that the construction of the new terminal was not subject to any public tender procedure. such a continuous delay is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors notes in its report that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking are reliable and that the transactions covered by them are legal and regular. however, i agree with the court of auditors that the joint undertaking and the deployment manager, in cooperation with the member states, should increase the number and improve the quality of projects proposed under the transport programme of the european infrastructure networks instrument (eitn).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented. the court of auditors' report is based on overly extensive remarks and lacks practical and concrete remarks; therefore calls for a more concrete analysis of the annual financial results, the implementation status of multiannual projects (and a clear indication of the implementation of the budget for the year concerned and the previous years) and the results and their implementation during the audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2014 provided for eur 13 119 600 in commitment appropriations and eur 121 942 760 in payment appropriations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. one of the main achievements of the company in 2014 was the launch of a new project related to general aviation and helicopter operations. in 2014, the joint undertaking's internal audit function carried out a human resources and recruitment audit, as well as two major reviews to reassess the key risks associated with the programmes and the related mitigation actions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on the annual report 2014 of the european investment bank. the eib's main task is to provide financial support for projects of benefit to the union which contribute to the sustainable development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. it is necessary to assess the eib's 2014 annual reports and the achievements of the eib as set out therein and to encourage the eib to continue its efforts to increase the low level of investment in the european union. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 smes, supporting 3.6 million jobs. i support calls for the eib to focus on investments in the real economy to boost job creation and economic growth in the eu. in assessing projects, the eib gives clear priority to the long-term impact of investments, not only in terms of their financial performance, but above all in terms of their contribution to sustainable development and a better quality of life and to further improvements in the areas of employment, social standards and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the report of the european parliament on the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). under the current circumstances, the eib has to carry out its core task of effectively implementing the investment plan for europe and ensuring the effective functioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as a key driver to promote economic growth, decent jobs and overcome social and territorial fragmentation in the union with a new degree of urgency. the european investment fund (eif) plays a crucial role in the eib group's response to the long-term effects of the crisis and contributes to the recovery of the european economy through its support for smes. the european parliament welcomed the eib's 2014 annual reports and the achievements of the eib as set out in them and strongly encouraged the eib to continue its efforts to increase the low level of investment in the european union. parliament noted the very high levels of unemployment in many member states, especially among young people, and urged the eib to take this into account in its policies. it noted that operations should aim to generate investment that would promote economic recovery and productive employment.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i believe that the european investment bank should pursue a more balanced lending policy towards the member states. in addition, greater attention should be paid to economic and social cohesion in the eu and climate policy, and more projects should be developed in these areas. priority should be given to investments aimed at accelerating economic recovery and increasing productivity. the eib should further increase its investment in education, skills development and jobs for young people. in addition, smes need to be given better access to finance. in order to strengthen environmental sustainability and climate policy, it is necessary to continue to actively apply new innovative climate policy instruments and to develop a market for green bonds. particular attention shall be paid to strengthening the governance, transparency and control framework of the eib and to enhancing parliamentary accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it sets out a number of green requirements. first of all, it should be noted that the european investment bank is one of the key players in supporting large-scale projects. but who benefits from them has not been so clear until now. the greens succeeded in ensuring that transparency, a zero tolerance for fraud, and proper settlement with project staff were reflected in the report. more importantly, the report includes a very important call for a gradual increase in the share of future investment in renewable energy capacity development and energy efficiency in the new member states, until it reaches 30% of total investment in these areas by 2020.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools in violation of international humanitarian law. the armed conflict has seen attacks on hospitals and schools, on doctors without borders health centres in kunduz, afghanistan, on raza, yemen, and on some towns in syria. the denial of humanitarian aid and access, the execution of civilians and humanitarian workers, the detention of civilians in appalling conditions, and the use of civilians as hostages or forced labour are all on the rise. the increased needs and challenges, the lack of long-term commitments and the increasing costs of humanitarian aid have contributed to the current humanitarian system being close to its limits. i support calls for parties to conflict to respect the basic principles of international humanitarian law during conflicts and not to target civilian infrastructure. it is also essential to increase the security of aid workers by ensuring a more effective response to attacks. the eu and its member states should urge the un and the un security council to ensure the protection of local and international humanitarian workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is a report by parliament on attacks on hospitals and schools, in violation of international humanitarian law. the international community has witnessed a worrying trend in recent years worldwide towards attacks on hospitals and schools during armed conflicts, such as the recent attacks on doctors without borders health centres in afghanistan in 2015, the attacks in yemen in 2016 and attacks in some syrian towns during the ongoing conflict. there is an unprecedented increase in the denial of humanitarian assistance and access, executions of civilians and humanitarian workers, and the detention of civilians in appalling conditions, including use of civilians as hostages and forced labour. reaffirming that international humanitarian law is an essential part of modern human history, parliament strongly condemned the failure to respect the norms of international humanitarian law and expressed its shock and deep concern at the deadly attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian objects, targeting and victimizing patients, students, medical staff and teachers, humanitarian aid workers, children and family members. parliament therefore calls on the member states, the eu institutions and the high representative and vice-president of the commission to recognise the true scale of this emergency and to use all available means to resolve the issue.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. first, it is necessary to prevent attacks on hospitals and schools. these establishments must be adequately protected and must not be the target of armed attacks. in the light of the pattern of deadly attacks on hospitals and schools, it is necessary to draw up a concrete action plan as a matter of urgency and to take all necessary measures to address this issue and ensure that these institutions remain a neutral protected area. it is important to note that attacks on hospitals and schools are to be considered as serious violations of the 1949 geneva conventions and as war crimes under the rome statute of the icc, which would be subject to strict liability. in addition, it is essential to ensure that the provisions of humanitarian law are properly respected in order to protect human life and dignity and to meet the needs of persons in emergency situations of war.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i think it reflects very well the european parliament's position that attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian objects are intolerable and condemnable. i support the idea that we should impose an eu arms embargo on countries that commit serious violations of international humanitarian law, in particular when the violations involve the deliberate targeting of civilian objects. health is a human right that should be available to all, no matter which side is fighting. i believe that attacks on hospitals are essentially attacks on ourselves.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this proposal on public access to documents in 2014/2015. full transparency is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu institutions. it contributes to the understanding of the rights provided for in the union legal framework and to the understanding and knowledge of the eu decision-making process, and to the proper implementation of administrative and legislative procedures. the right of access to documents is a fundamental right which promotes good administrative practice in relation to access to documents, ensuring democratic control of the activities of the institutions and their compliance with the provisions of the treaties. the eu institutions and bodies have not appointed a transparency officer from within their governance structures to be responsible for compliance and improving practices; i support the calls for the institutions to do so as soon as possible. i agree that in order to ensure a legal, accountable and democratic political system that respects the rule of law, citizens have the right to know and control: the activities of their representatives when they are elected or appointed to public office, the decision-making process and the way public funds are allocated and used, and the results achieved. i therefore agree that it is essential to make public an electronic register containing all the information mentioned above.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it provides an assessment of the way in which the public's right of access to documents was implemented in 2014/2015. parliament noted that full transparency is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu institutions, which helps to understand the rights provided for in the union's legal framework and to understand and inform the eu decision-making process, and contributes to the proper implementation of administrative and legislative procedures. the right of access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties, in particular with a view to ensuring that this right can be exercised as easily as possible and to promoting good administrative practices in relation to access to documents, ensuring democratic control of the activities of the institutions and their compliance with the provisions of the treaties. in its report, parliament notes that the three eu institutions have not followed up properly on many of the recommendations made in the 2011-2013 resolution on the public's right of access to documents. parliament particularly regrets that the eu institutions and bodies have not appointed a transparency officer from within their governance structures to be responsible for compliance and improving practices.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. in particular, the right of public access to documents held by the eu institutions must be extended. openness and transparency are key factors in the development of a closer union, the involvement of citizens in the decision-making process, greater legitimacy and effectiveness of governance and greater accountability to the citizen, and the strengthening of democracy and respect for human rights. in order to increase the transparency of the legislative process, the provisions of eu law governing public access to documents of the eu institutions need to be improved. particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of the principles of transparency and publicity of negotiations throughout the legislative process. it is important to note that a mandatory register of lobbyists should be established in the eu to help prevent abuse and ensure proper compliance with the principles of transparency and ethics.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is an important document which highlights a problem which has been frequently raised. it is clear that citizens still have difficulty in accessing information held by the eu institutions. documents are often classified. this creates an atmosphere of mistrust of the eu institutions in the member states. i think this report is important because it also deals with the publication of negotiating positions. the case of the transatlantic trade agreement is a good illustration of the fact that in many cases access to documents that determine the future of eu citizens is particularly difficult. however, the publication of these documents, at least those which do not undermine the negotiating position, could ensure that the public is not guided by rumours but by facts which help the public to decide for itself its future.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on women domestic workers and carers in the eu. under the ilo convention, a domestic worker is any person who works in one or more households in an employment relationship. supervision services work in public or private institutions providing personal childcare, care for the elderly, sick or disabled. in 2010, more than 52 million people were employed in the household sector, and this figure has yet to be added to the 7.4 million household workers under the age of 15, representing 5.9% of all workers in industrialized countries. the majority of people working in this sector in 2010 were women. unfortunately, undeclared work and exploitation are widespread in these sectors. i therefore agree that it is urgently necessary to recognise the work of domestic workers as genuine work and as having value throughout the eu, since recognition of this occupational sector should reduce undeclared work and promote social integration. i support calls on the commission to present policy instruments in the area of domestic work and care services, which would include initiatives setting out quality guidelines for both sectors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it is parliament's voice on women domestic workers and carers in the eu. according to the ilo, more than 52 million people were employed in the domestic sector in 2010 and according to the ilo, the majority of people employed in this sector in 2010 were women (83% of the total workforce). however, parliament notes that in both sectors, the prevalence of undeclared work and exploitation, and the work of domestic workers and care providers, is most associated with this risk: job insecurity, geographical mobility, irregular working hours, seasonality, rotation, uncertainty, temporary nature, it is mostly undeclared. according to the ilo, 29.9% of domestic workers are not covered by any national labour legislation, which means that domestic workers and carers are very rarely and unevenly regulated in the member states, are often not considered as typical or ordinary workers and therefore have much more limited labour rights and social protection. parliament therefore called on the member states to develop legal frameworks to define the rights and obligations of the various stakeholders and to allow for legal and organised employment of domestic and care providers, in order to provide legal certainty for both workers in this sector and their potential employers.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. it should be noted that care and household services have a high potential for job creation. they can improve work-life balance, increase productivity and transfer undeclared work to the formal labour market. the transfer of these services from the shadow economy to the formal economy would help to create and develop micro-enterprises and smes. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the ilo convention 189 on decent and appropriate work for domestic workers and its ratification. it is essential to establish legal regulations defining the status of domestic workers in the eu countries. in addition, common rules should be drawn up for the provision of domestic and care services. in view of the benefits of these services, investment in more and better measures to prevent, detect and combat illegal work in the domestic and care services sector should be encouraged.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the report is fundamentally changing attitudes towards women in the domestic workforce. first of all, it emphasises that the work of domestic workers is real work and has value. secondly, attention is drawn to the need for professionalism in this work, the need to ensure recognition of the skills and qualifications of domestic workers and care providers. this would encourage competition and help to create greater economic benefits.
in writing. i support domestic workers and nurses as professions, and i support their inclusion in all national labour and non-discrimination legislation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it is a statement by parliament on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. digitalisation has revolutionized and fundamentally changed the way people receive and provide information, communicate, socialise, learn and work, by creating new opportunities for participation in public and political debates, in the education system and in the labour market, by opening up new perspectives for the individual to make decisions about his or her own life and by providing enormous economic potential for the european union and beyond. the information society, promoted by information and communication technologies, opens up vast possibilities for the acquisition and distribution of wealth and knowledge, as seen in the free and open source software industry, which has transformed the way software is produced, distributed, maintained and used to ensure greater digital inclusion. parliament therefore urges the commission and the council to make full use of the opportunities offered by the information society and the internet to promote women's empowerment, women's rights and freedoms and gender equality, irrespective of age, disability, genetic characteristics, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, social or ethnic origin, religion or belief, or economic status. stresses that access to the internet is a new essential service for everyone, as the internet is now an important tool in everyone's daily life at home, at work, in studies and in science, in management in companies, public sector bodies, institutions and organisations, as well as in the working methods of social networks and in the promotion of equal opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. it should be noted that it is one of the most promising sectors, with a high growth rate, high wages and a shortage of labour. young people, irrespective of their gender, should therefore be encouraged to choose professions in this sector more frequently. it is essential to exploit the full potential of the information society, ict and the internet in order to address the high gender gap in the ict sector, to ensure gender equality and to mainstream the gender perspective. more attention should be paid to education and training, promoting digital literacy and the participation of women and girls in ict education and training programmes. an innovative and competitive ict environment should be created, investment encouraged and funding opportunities increased.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it covers several topics, but one of the most important is online violence. as many as 9 million women in europe have been victims of online violence. that's an impressive number that shows the scale of the problem we face. i think one of the key calls in the report is for member states to allocate the necessary resources to law enforcement. they should be aimed at the implementation of current legislation on cyber-violence, cyberbullying, harassment and persecution, and hate speech.
in writing. – the energy union’s aim is providing mutual benefits: to secure energy for consumers at affordable prices, create competitive market opportunities for suppliers and strengthen eu members’ solidarity. one of the union’s key goals was achieving greater energy diversification by finding alternative sources. nord stream 2 represents neither source nor supply diversification. it duplicates the existing nord stream 1 pipeline and can become a russian political weapon. in order to stay resilient, the eu needs more cooperativeness and interconnection. this killer-project’s aim is opening up old divisions by destroying recently installed interconnectors in central europe and by creating winners that will be directly supplied by nord stream 2 and losers bypassed by it. ukraine’s european future would also be put at risk as nord stream 2 would create the conditions to cut off the gas currently transited through it. developing alternative energy sources infrastructure, boosting eu energy production and building new pipelines and interconnections compose an investment plan towards a common and secure energy future. energy security is a key pillar of the eu’s energy union strategy and i believe nord stream 2 would eliminate any prospect of achieving a competitive and resilient internal eu gas market, free from political manipulation.
in writing. there have been dozens of studies on europe's need to diversify its energy suppliers for its own security. the implementation of the third energy package has fundamentally changed the situation in lithuania. a few years ago we were 100% dependent on gazprom gas, and today we are talking about realistic plans to completely abandon it. the possibility of choosing not to accept the terms of russia's increasingly aggressive foreign policy is an aspiration of the countries of central and eastern europe. the european commission has taken the right steps towards the energy union. however, the nord stream 2 plan is completely contrary to this objective. the eu's largest economy is naturally keen to maximise its efficiency, and it is argued that the agreement will allow this to happen. however, the recent debate in the bundestag on the cost of this 'commercial' project for germany, which will need to adapt its domestic gas networks to the new flow, raises serious doubts. the initial estimate is around eur 500 million. it is clear that the project will be costly and that other countries will pay a huge price for europe's ever-increasing dependence on russian gas. the damage caused by nord stream 2 is therefore not only in terms of geopolitical or energy security, but also in terms of economic viability. moreover, the imminent opening of the possibility to import gas from the usa could fundamentally change the european gas market. trade with this strategic partner, not an aggressive neighbor, should be the direction to take.
for the efdd group mr president, commissioner, youth unemployment is the most painful thorn in the side of europe's future. without work, the union's youth is losing hope for the future. and for years, there have been programs, millions of euros, to try to reduce youth unemployment. if one looks at the statistics for several years, when youth unemployment is by no means decreasing but remains at a stable level, it should be noted that all measures to reduce unemployment are insufficient and more declarative. the financial incentives for employers are too low, the commitment period is too short. the money spent on re-qualification doesn't produce the results we want. i think that we need to have a different approach and that it should not be limited to unemployment. for a young person, a home is as important as a job. let's build it and let the young people have it on a preferential basis. housing and work for young families with children should be the main priority of every european union country and every municipality. another incentive for young people let's create legislation to allow young people to take up family businesses on preferential terms throughout the european union. thus, lower taxation of labour, preferential taxes and tax rates for employers and for young people themselves under the age of 30 could at least partially address the problem of youth unemployment.
in writing. in the last few years, there has been a lot of discussion in the eu and in the member states on how to combat youth unemployment, or at least how to reduce its negative consequences. youth unemployment itself is a strange enough phenomenon in a developed, safe and educated europe the data show that young people have never lived better than now in history, if we consider the availability of nutrition, education, the level of protection of human rights and freedoms, the ability to travel for academic and professional purposes not only in the european union but also around the world, not to mention the opportunities offered by the internet. so does the commission not think that we have so far involved young people too little or not enough in the eu debate on the problems facing young people today, and in particular the problem of unemployment? do i think that the eu has not paid enough attention to promoting youth entrepreneurship, and in particular to promoting innovative entrepreneurship, which is what our younger generation is best equipped to do? does the commission not think that it would be worthwhile for the eu to launch a large-scale initiative to actively involve young people (both young entrepreneurs and those who want to become entrepreneurs) in order to jointly seek concrete means to empower the young generation and unlock their potential to create jobs not only for themselves but also for others? could such an initiative be one of the initiatives supported by the european fund for strategic investments, as a real investment in the future?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on protection against subsidised imports from non-eu countries, which aims only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the protection against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union, as the consultative working party, after considering this proposal, agreed that the proposal was intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance. in the european context, the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying eu law, with the aim of making it more understandable and accessible to citizens, who will be able to take advantage of new opportunities and specific rights. this objective will not be achieved if many provisions which have been amended several times, in part and often substantially, remain scattered among the various acts and therefore have to be sought in part in the original act and in part in subsequent amending acts. therefore, to find the rules in force at a given moment, it is necessary to carry out a study by comparing different legal acts. for this reason, it is important to codify the rules, which have been frequently amended, in order to ensure that the law is clear and transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation. it is necessary to explain when a subsidy is to be deemed to exist, according to which principles it is to be countervailable, and according to which criteria the amount of the countervailable subsidy is to be calculated.
in writing. ‒ the proposal seeks only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is essential to protect the community market properly and to prevent possible injury to the eu industry. it is therefore necessary to remove any existing errors and legal loopholes in order to ensure a smooth and effective application of trade defence measures against imports from third countries. the codified version of this legislation will ensure sufficient protection against the negative effects of subsidies, better fulfilment of policy objectives and help to achieve the benefits of eu regulation. legal trade defence measures will help to eliminate distortions in the domestic and international markets.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that subsidised exports are a brake on free competition and a killer of innovation. having proclaimed free competition as a fundamental value of the european union, we cannot tolerate distortions of competition. the draft decision under consideration covers this problem in sufficient detail. however, i believe that it pays far too little attention to the challenges faced by the less developed eu member states in terms of subsidised exports to the eu from third countries. nevertheless, i am voting in favour and urge my colleague to support this report, bearing in mind that the less developed eu member states face specific problems with subsidised exports to the eu from third countries and pay a very high social and economic price for this. i urge the commission to take these aspects more into account when considering specific measures to combat subsidised exports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on protection against dumped imports from non-eu countries, which aims only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries outside the european union, as the consultative working party unanimously decided that the proposal was intended only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance. this regulation seeks to ensure a fair comparison between the export price and the normal value. in addition, those factors which may affect prices and price comparisons should be listed, and appropriate rules should be laid down as to how and when they should be adjusted, and provision should be made to avoid double adjustment. it should also be provided that average prices are used for the comparison, although individual export prices may also be compared to the average normal value if they vary according to the buyer, region or period. a product is considered to be dumped if its export price to the eu is below the price of a comparable like product in the ordinary course of trade in the exporting country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal seeks only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that dumping is an obstacle to free competition and a killer of innovation. we cannot apply the principle of free competition to distortions of competition by declaring it a fundamental value of the european union. the draft decision under consideration covers this problem in sufficient detail. it is true that i think it pays far too little attention to the challenges faced by the less developed eu member states. nevertheless, i am voting in favour and i urge my colleague to support this report, bearing in mind that the less developed eu member states face specific problems due to dumping by third countries and pay a very high social and economic price for it. i would urge the commission to take these aspects more into account when considering specific anti-dumping measures from third countries.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report by heidi hautala, mep, because it touches on issues that are important to european producers and farmers. there is no doubt that we should try to protect the union market from the dumped imports of these products from non-eu countries. our priority should be to protect producers in our member states. in this way, we will avoid unfair competition in international trade and strengthen our economy and protect jobs in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol. its objective is to achieve sustainable management of fisheries resources and ecosystems. this new agreement concerns only tuna. for a total of eur 3.25 million over five years, eu vessels will be able to catch 6 500 tonnes of tuna each year. the financial contribution shall be divided equally between the payment of the access to fishery resources and the development of the fisheries policy of the republic of liberia. in liberia, the contribution of small-scale fishing to food security is crucial but limited by the lack of infrastructure: liberia is a net importer of fish for domestic consumption, in particular of small pelagic fish. this should be considered as a priority in the context of eu support to the sector, including support for the participatory management plan for small pelagic fisheries being prepared by liberia.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because the european union (eu) has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries in recent years. under fisheries partnership agreements, the eu provides financial and technical assistance in exchange for fishing opportunities for various fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of the partner country. since 2014, following the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been referred to as sustainable fisheries partnership agreements. this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be concluded between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has 570 km of atlantic coastline. the liberian exclusive economic zone, covering 246 152 km2, is home to bottom and pelagic fish stocks, including tuna and related species. the eu and liberia cooperate through multilateral agreements. in addition, the liberian food and agriculture policy and strategy 2008 adopted relevant provisions based on international best practice as set out in the non-binding 1995 food and agriculture organisation (fao) code for responsible fisheries (ccrf). the liberian authorities are working closely with the eu to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would therefore help the eu to achieve its objectives in combating iuu fishing and to promote the common fisheries policy objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the new partnership agreement is expected to contribute to liberia’s recovery after the ebola crisis and is a sign of the eu’s confidence in liberia’s economy.
in writing. ‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and its implementation protocol are in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) on sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities and are of great benefit to both the eu member states and liberia.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol on its implementation between the european union and the republic of liberia. this agreement will renew the framework for a strategic fisheries partnership between the european union and the republic of liberia, promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources. it is necessary to further develop sustainable and responsible fishing and to increase the value of fishery products, taking into account the interests of both parties. it is worth noting that the eu's financial support will be directed to research, as well as to small-scale fisheries, fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance and the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ a sustainable fisheries agreement is being concluded with our key partner liberia. neither the form nor the content of the document leaves any doubt that it must be approved as a mutually beneficial instrument. liberia has significant fish stocks for which the european union has the capacity. i believe that the funds liberia receives will contribute to the modernization of this country. i would also like to point out that in this agreement both parties undertake to limit their appetite for fishing to the extent that it does not harm the balance of nature. and that's good. such wording should become a core element of all eu fisheries agreements.
in writing. it strengthens the union's cooperation with liberia and, more generally, with west africa, which has important tuna fishing areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania. the aim of the agreement is to approve a new four-year eu-mauritania fisheries protocol, which will allow eu vessels, including lithuanian vessels, to fish for crustaceans, tuna or pelagic fish in mauritian waters. the eu, for its part, has committed €59 million in annual aid to mauritania and to support the country's fishing sector. the protocol signed in july 2015 allows vessels from spain, italy, portugal, france, germany, latvia, lithuania, the netherlands, poland, the united kingdom and ireland to fish in mauritian waters. the eu will be able to catch 247 500 tonnes of pelagic fish each year, of which 58 000 tonnes are allocated to lithuanian vessels.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because under the first fisheries agreement with mauritania in 1989 and the various agreements that have followed since then, eu vessels have been able to fish in mauritania's waters. the current partnership agreement entered into force in 2006 and was extended in 2012 for two years until the end of 2014. following lengthy negotiations, the european union and mauritania signed a new protocol on 10 july 2015 allowing eu fishermen to fish in mauritian waters for four years. the european parliament considers that the new protocol is much more advanced than the previous one and welcomes the new commitments by mauritania to ensure transparency and to give priority access to the eu fleet, in view of the bitter experience of previous years when mauritania allowed foreign fleets to fish for cod and did not allow the eu fleet to do so. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following fisheries: the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea, the fisheries sector in the baltic sea and the fisheries sector in the baltic sea. the positive factor is that the financial contribution is more coordinated in the light of the fishing opportunities granted. this is in principle a better cost-benefit ratio of the agreement with mauritania, which is also helped by the changes made to the technical measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the new protocol confirms several decades of cooperation in the field of fisheries, a key sector for the development of mauritania and one of the pillars of the european strategy for blue growth.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's position that the new agreement is much more advanced than the previous one and that the new commitments by mauritania will ensure transparency and better access for the eu fleet. the extension of the protocol, which is the most important document currently signed by the european union with third countries, to four years will provide greater stability for the mauritanian fleet fishing in mauritanian waters.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of a new four-year fisheries protocol between the eu and mauritania. it is the most important document currently signed by the european union with third countries, ensuring the sustainable exploitation of fish and living aquatic resources, the proper protection of the marine environment, the smooth operation of the eu member states' navies and the adequate supply of quality food to consumers. it should be noted that this protocol will allow eu vessels, and therefore lithuanian vessels, to fish for crustaceans, tuna or pelagic fish in mauritian waters. it will also ensure greater stability and protect the interests of the european fishing industry. it is worth noting that the eu will provide annual support of eur 59 million to mauritania and will help the country's fishing sector. a partnership framework will also be established to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources, taking into account the interests of both parties.
in writing. ‒ a fisheries agreement is being concluded with our key partner mauritania. neither the form nor the content of the document leaves any doubt that it must be approved as a mutually beneficial instrument. mauritania has substantial fish stocks for which the european union has the capacity. i believe that the funds received by mauritania will contribute to the modernization of this country. at the same time, member states should be encouraged to make every effort, both by governments and businesses, to take full advantage of the agreement without delay, while limiting their appetite to catch only what is not harmful to the natural balance
in writing. the extension of the protocol, which is the most important document currently signed by the european union with third countries, to four years will provide greater stability for the mauritanian fleet fishing in mauritanian waters.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of korea on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the republic of korea has space technology and its application capabilities. it actively uses satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, science and surveying. this agreement was signed on 9 september 2006 in accordance with the council decision of 1 september 2006 on its signature. the member states of the european union and the republic of korea, which have signed the agreement, have completed their internal procedures for the entry into force of the agreement. the agreement aims to encourage, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global satellite navigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the republic of korea is a country with capabilities in space technology and applications. it is currently an active user of gps services in various sectors including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. korean interlocutors have expressed a specific interest in extending the use of satellite navigation through galileo to various sectors including transport and fisheries and the upgrading of their differential gps station network to galileo signals.
in writing. ‒ the i approve the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with korea on the establishment of a civil global satellite navigation system. it is noted that this agreement will promote and strengthen cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global satellite navigation. it will also facilitate the more efficient development of a global satellite navigation system for civil use and the development of a common global system. it is noted that the agreement will promote joint research activities. this will increase mutual cooperation between industry and help to develop trade and stimulate investment.
in writing. ‒ a cooperation agreement on satellite navigation is being concluded with our ally and partner south korea. neither the form nor the content of the document leaves any doubt that it is to be accepted as a means of increasing the competitiveness of the two contracting parties. at the same time, member states should only be encouraged to make every effort, both by governments and by businesses, to take full advantage of the benefits of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the draft cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on the establishment of a civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss). the proper functioning of any navigation system in the 21st century, including air transport in particular, requires the widest possible cooperation between countries. it is important that this cooperation be used for civilian purposes, as the draft council decision points out. the agreement with the republic of korea fills this legal gap.
in writing. i agree to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy plays a crucial role in the development of the eu’s economy. i voted in favour of this proposal, as it makes it possible to develop and update the policy through introduction of two new mechanisms: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. iti plays a role of a unique platform to combine investments from different funds under priority axes of one or more operational programmes. clld provides a bottom-up approach and guarantees that initiatives of local communities will be heard. regional policy is highly important to unleash the growth potential of the eu and we should make the cohesion policy more efficient to strengthen our capacities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for new territorial development measures in cohesion policy 2014-2020. objective of the proposal assessment of the implementation of the bipc and iti measures. two new measures have been introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community initiated local development (cild). the bic is a new instrument to be used at subregional level. it builds on the experience of community-led local development in the leader initiative and is based on a bottom-up approach: it aims to strengthen the interaction between local actors and the public and private sectors. the iti will help to implement integrated territorial strategies by providing the possibility to combine funding from several priority axes of one or more operational programmes. itis can be used to achieve the sustainable urban development goal, but they can also be used for other areas. i agree that the problems associated with these programmes, such as the fact that young people are often excluded from public policy discussions, need to be addressed. it is particularly important to involve young people in territorial development measures, in particular the bic. moreover, the multi-fund funding opportunities provided by the new regulations should be used as widely as possible in order to adopt a truly integrated or holistic approach to cohesion policy intervention. it is also important that instruments such as the iti and the bic play a more prominent role in future cohesion policy discussions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the new territorial development measures in cohesion policy 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (cild). territorial cohesion is recognised as one of the main objectives of the european union as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the new generation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period therefore places greater emphasis on the application of integrated and place-based approaches to enhance economic, social and territorial cohesion. two new instruments under the european structural and investment funds (esif) for the purpose of achieving the territorial cohesion objective have been introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community initiated local development (cild). community-led local development is a new tool to be used at subregional level. it builds on the experience of community-led local development in the leader initiative and is based on a bottom-up approach: it aims to strengthen the interaction between local actors and the public and private sectors. integrated territorial investment will help to implement integrated territorial strategies by providing the possibility to combine funding from several priority axes of one or more operational programmes. itis can be used to achieve the sustainable urban development goal, but they can also be used for other areas. in the partnership agreements, member states had to specify how they would benefit from iti and bisp and the types of areas and problems to which these mechanisms would be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it is not only eu programmes that need to be more flexible and better integrated, but also mainstream national and regional policies. ensuring a more general spirit of governance reform will help to ensure that eu funds are not delivered in a ‘parallel’ framework to national and regional policies, but rather are embedded in a broader drive to produce sustainable economic outcomes.
‒ i support the ep's report on the new cohesion policy instruments - integrated territorial investment (iti) and community initiated local development (cild) - as i believe these instruments will help to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion and to create quality local jobs.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, new territorial development measures must be given special attention. integrated territorial investment and community-led local development will allow for a more efficient use of the cohesion policy budget and will help to reduce social and economic disparities. it is therefore important to facilitate the use of these instruments in order to encourage the active participation of local and regional actors. taking into account the importance of technical and financial support, it is necessary to establish strategies for the initial stages of the implementation process and strategies for technical and financial support. in addition, a multi-source approach to financing should be allowed to help develop more effective regional and local development strategies. tax and other incentives should be considered in order to improve employment opportunities and sustainable and inclusive growth, and to promote poverty reduction and social inclusion. regions should be given the opportunity to benefit more effectively from the social investment package. a specific investment programme should be drawn up for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ as a politician with two decades of experience in regional development, i can only welcome the report's provisions which propose to increase the role of the integrated territorial development and community initiated local development methodologies developed in the previous financial period. i am pleased that the rapporteur has agreed to our proposals on standards for the operation of local action groups, and has also paid due attention to the issues of public involvement, local administrative capacity, ownership of eu-funded activities. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that a stable legal environment is a key condition for sustainable growth. i am therefore pleased that the report focuses on strengthening the already tried and tested instruments for territorial development. the results of the last financial period confirm the effectiveness of such local development mechanisms based on the participation of local communities and the bottom-up approach. the only task now left is to ensure that communities and other beneficiaries of european union support can exploit the full potential of the existing territorial development instruments.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report by mep r. tomašić for several important reasons. the communication promotes a new generation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, with a stronger focus on economic and social cohesion, which is of key importance for the new member states, including lithuania. it is also important that the report makes the assumption that local actors receive support to develop and implement development strategies in their area of operation. and most importantly, young people are involved in social and territorial development. this will create new jobs in the future by reducing unemployment.
in writing. i welcome the commission's focus on results, as this should help local policymakers to move from an over-emphasis on the use of funds and the streamlining of implementation processes to setting real and meaningful goals that would deliver tangible change for local businesses and residents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. the regulation on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics is part of the overall eu framework for monitoring economic developments in each member state and across the union. the production of reliable statistics in such areas is very useful for monitoring key characteristics such as the development of current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. since the adoption of the original regulation and subsequent updates, international capital flows have become more intense and complex, making it more difficult to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the revision of the regulation is an opportunity to increase the transparency and completeness of statistics on mfi, fdi and gni and to take advantage of the latest legal innovations to make these statistics a more reliable tool for economic policy decisions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. the regulation on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics is part of the overall european union framework for monitoring economic development in each member state and across the eu. the production of reliable statistics in such areas is very useful for monitoring key characteristics such as the development of current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. these statistics thus help to ensure the consistency of member states' economic policies with the broad eu guidelines and their compliance with the legal requirements under the eu economic governance framework. in particular, reliable statistics are a crucial basis for the monitoring process established under the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. since the adoption of the original regulation and subsequent updates, international capital flows have become more intense and complex. in particular, the increased use of special purpose vehicles and legal structures to channel capital flows has increased the difficulties in monitoring those capital flows, ensuring their adequate traceability and avoiding double or multiple accounting, and thus making it more difficult to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment as regards conferring of delegated and implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures.
in writing. ‒ i support the amendments to the regulation proposed by the ep, as they will increase the transparency and completeness of statistics, allow them to benefit from the latest innovations and make them a more reliable tool for economic policy decisions.
in writing. - i voted for this regulation. it is of particular importance that the instruments for producing high-quality european statistics be set up in such a way as to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are consistent with the broad guidelines of the eu and the requirements of the economic governance framework. the new rules will strengthen reporting and publication requirements to ensure transparency and completeness of data. it will also enable the production and publication of internationally comparable statistics, which will allow for a proper assessment of overall capital flows and take advantage of the latest innovations.
in writing. ‒ i urge you to support the comprehensive report by my colleague, ms sven, on the regulation of balance of payments statistics. objective and comprehensive statistics are the basis of any more complex system and it is therefore in the fundamental interest of the european union to achieve the highest possible quality and coverage of the statistical system used.
in writing. reliable statistics are an essential part of the monitoring process established under the macroeconomic imbalance procedures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the eu's cohesion policy for mountain regions. mountain regions cover a large part of the eu's territory, up to about 30%. due to extreme conditions and remoteness, many mountain regions suffer from structural difficulties and therefore face a phenomenon of population decline and social ageing, which may disrupt the natural generation cycle and lead to a deterioration in social standards and quality of life. this often leads to increased unemployment, social exclusion and urban migration. i support calls on the commission to start developing a working definition of mountain regions for cohesion policy in order to improve the coordination of relevant policies and measures. i agree that eu policy instruments should have a special concept for mountain regions, as these regions face obvious structural difficulties. additional support is necessary to address the challenges of climate change, to provide full-time employment opportunities rather than seasonal ones, to develop the economy and to prevent and manage natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union (eu). the eu's cohesion policy rarely focuses on mountainous regions. the territorial dimension is discussed, but the mountains themselves are in the background and it is expected that member states themselves will focus on the mountains and the challenges associated with them. however, eu funds are often focused on achieving specific results. as insufficient infrastructure and additional costs due to remoteness make it difficult to invest in mountains, mountain regions are not taken into account. this report focuses on how eu mountains can help achieve eu objectives, such as the europe 2020 strategy. the abundant natural resources and assets of mountain regions can provide jobs for employment in the european union, in particular green jobs to help combat climate change. the high diversity and abundance of renewable energy sources can help to achieve the eu's renewable energy targets. at the same time, in the less developed mountain regions of the eu, eu funds can help reduce poverty and social exclusion. the development of many mountain resources can also improve social, economic and territorial cohesion to ensure sustainable economic development in mountain areas. as ecologically sustainable growth centres themselves, mountains can be a driving force for sustainable economic growth in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. an eu framework for development strategies in mountain areas would make it possible to take into account the specific challenges and importance of mountain farming, the high levels of biodiversity and the specific exposure of mountain areas to climate change. cohesion policy could use such a framework to better address the demographic challenges of many mountain areas and to promote their economic and social development more efficiently with an enhanced sustainable development perspective.
in writing, i support the provisions in the ep resolution to strengthen cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions and thus exploit the potential of the natural resources they contain. i believe that creating green jobs in these regions would help to combat climate change and contribute to reducing poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. cohesion policy is the eu's main investment instrument for reducing development disparities between eu regions. given the complex situation of mountain regions, they should be included not only in cohesion but also in all eu policies. a common definition of mountain regions should be established and applied. in addition, specific eu policy instruments for mountain regions should be established and their appropriate coordination, monitoring and control ensured. in addition, the eu's mountain agenda should be developed on the basis of the progress of the alpine macro-regional strategy. in order to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to reduce the digital divide, and to increase the employment of young people and women, incentives and other support measures of various kinds should be provided.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions have quite specific conditions which also have a significant impact on the efforts of the european union and the member states to ensure territorial cohesion. i agree that for these reasons, additional attention should be paid to mountain regions. on the other hand, it is difficult to support a report which does not contain important provisions on the fact that even for mountain regions cohesion support should be differentiated in particular according to the level of overall development already achieved.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported this report because, as a member of the committee on agriculture, i am very familiar with the problems that have been reported on many occasions and which affect the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions are often undervalued and excluded from economic policy and development. eu funding is often focused on specific outcomes, which are difficult to achieve in disadvantaged mountainous areas. it is therefore very good that the report emphasises the need to extend cohesion policy with a particular focus on these areas. this will contribute to sustainable economic growth across the eu.
in writing. i believe that mountain farming plays an important role in mitigating climate change, as pastures and forests absorb carbon dioxide. recalls that farming, sustainable land management and sustainable forestry in mountain areas are essential to conserve biodiversity and avoid environmental and landscape impacts, including impacts on wildlife habitats, which cause significant damage to livestock farms by predators; i would like to remind you of the importance of water resources in mountain areas and of the risks of natural hazards.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal on the exemptions for traders in commodities. the requirements of the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd) apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is based on the regime applicable to credit institutions, adapted as a function of the investment services they provide. the commission decided to carry out a joint review of the proper conduct of traders on the stock exchange and the general conduct of prudential supervision of investment firms and to prepare a joint report on the above-mentioned topics. i agree that this is necessary to ensure the development of a coherent risk management framework for all types of investment firms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the exemption for commodity traders. the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive set out requirements applicable to both credit institutions and investment firms. the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is based on the regime applicable to credit institutions, adapted as a function of the investment services they provide. the commission has decided to conduct a joint review of the proper conduct of traders on a stock exchange and of the general conduct of prudential supervision of investment firms ('the investment firm review') and to prepare a joint report on the above-mentioned topics. this is considered necessary to ensure the development of a coherent risk management framework for all types of investment firms. the review of investment firms has already started: the commission has requested the european banking authority (eba) and the european securities and markets authority (esma) to provide technical advice on this matter. however, the review of investment firms is a complex project that will not be completed before the end of this year. the commission notes that the exemption for the production of electricity from renewable sources is not limited to the production of electricity from renewable sources, but also to the production of electricity from renewable sources. this would imply that if no specific risk-mitigation framework had been established by the end of the review of investment firms, they would be subject to all the requirements of the above regulation and directive as from 1 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it is highly improbable that any legislation that may result from this review can be prepared, adopted and applied before the current exemptions expire. to prevent this situation arising, the commission decided to extend the existing exemptions until 31 december 2020 or the date of entry into force of any amendments, whichever is the earlier.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by the ep's committee on economic and monetary affairs which proposes to extend the exemptions for commodity traders until a risk management system is in place for them. this extension will ensure stable operating conditions and a stable regulatory framework while the review of investment firms is ongoing and the relevant legislation is being prepared.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i believe it is essential to extend the period of validity of the exemptions provided for traders in exchange-traded products. it should be noted that the review of investment firms has already started but will not be completed before the end of this year. it is therefore essential to properly assess the time needed to complete the review of investment firms when setting the new expiry date. similarly, the existing arrangements for traders in exchange-traded commodities should be maintained until the end of the review. given the current situation, a reasonable period should be allowed for the preparation, adoption and application of new legislation.
in writing. ‒ the commission's general review of the common rules for the prudential supervision of investment firms and the common rules for the prudential supervision of commodity exchanges may have a negative effect on non-investment firms whose activities are regulated by the same regulation (eu) no 575/2013 (or the capital requirements regulation) as directive 2013/36/eu (or the capital requirements directive). the commission seems to have acted in haste - even if it had asked the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority for advice on this matter, it would not have been in a hurry to get it and translate it into legislation. it is widely agreed that the review of investment firms is a complex project that will not be completed before the end of this year. therefore, there is a risk that the necessary legislation will not be developed, adopted and applied by the end of this review until the expiry of the current exemptions by the end of 2017. this would mean that traders in commodities would be subject to all the requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive as from 1 january 2018. since it is not possible to impose on all commodity traders the burden of complying with all the requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive, and given the need to develop a risk-mitigation framework for commodity traders after the investment firm review, the proposal to extend the exemptions in the capital requirements directive should be accepted.
in writing. i support the motion to extend the derogation to protect commodity traders in the short term from an unstable regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ i support the initiative to enhance europol’s mandate as the eu’s central law enforcement agency and provide new tools for rapid response to emerging terrorist threats, serious and organised crime. europol will be able to initiate their own investigations and receive data from member states on systematic basis. moreover i totally agree that we need to ensure that this agency has all needed capacities to prevent the online spread of terrorist propaganda, as information is a strong weapon in hands of the terrorists. at the same time new legislation provides better data protection and gives all necessary control on the topic in hands of the european data protection authority.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the european police office. europol is the eu's law enforcement agency, assisting member states' law enforcement authorities in the fight against international crime and terrorism. to adapt to new threats, eu governments and the european parliament have agreed to extend europol's counter-terrorism powers. the updated rules of operation of the european police office (europol) will allow a greater focus on the fight against terrorism or cyber-attacks. in turn, the new powers of the office will be subject to additional democratic oversight. the new rules will make it easier to set up specialised units to deal with emerging threats and will clarify the functions of the european counter-terrorism centre, which will be operational from 1 january this year. in addition, europol will be able to exchange information with private companies in some cases, for example to take down the websites of terrorist organisations on social networks.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation as the council position was adopted at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). the establishment of a harmonised high-level data protection framework covering the activities of police and judicial authorities in the european union is a crucial measure for the protection and safeguarding of the fundamental rights of union citizens. given the shared responsibility of the eu and the member states for the area of freedom, security and justice, it is essential to ensure close and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and european union level. the european parliament and the council consider that, following the adoption of the proposed general data protection regulation and the data protection directive on the processing of data in the police and justice sectors, including the new european data protection board to be established in the near future, and in the light of the published review of regulation (ec) no 45/2001, the different mechanisms for cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in this area, including the cooperation board established by this regulation, should be reorganised in the future in order to ensure efficiency and consistency and avoid unnecessary duplication of activities, without prejudice to the right of initiative of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. given the shared responsibilities of the union and member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, it is essential that there be close and effective cooperation among supervisory authorities at national and union level which this regulation did not manage to cover.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to give europol new powers to facilitate the establishment of specialised units to help it respond more quickly to emerging threats. i also support the new proposed provisions to allow europol to exchange information with private companies in certain cases - for example, to ask facebook to remove isis-controlled pages and accounts. i believe that this will make a significant contribution to the prevention and suppression of criminal activities and will help to ensure public security more effectively.
in writing. i agree with the recommendation. in view of the current threat of terrorism and cyber-attacks, it is necessary to strengthen the role and powers of europol. the updated rules of the police office will ensure that the fight against terrorism and cybercrime is given greater focus. europol shall be prepared to respond appropriately to potential threats. the eu response must be comprehensive and based on consistent action. it is also essential to ensure that member states provide all necessary information in a timely manner in relation to organised terrorism or criminal activities and to strengthen cooperation between them. the harmonised rules will facilitate the establishment of independent europol units, which are necessary to combat new threats. it also provides for greater parliamentary scrutiny and oversight of the work of the office, which will ensure that europol is made more efficient and accountable.
in writing. ‒ the union and the member states share responsibility for an area of freedom, security and justice, and it is therefore essential to ensure close and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and union level. their joint activities must lead to the emergence of a harmonised system of high data protection standards covering the activities of the police and judicial authorities. in turn, the effective and confidential processing of personal data in the union is a fundamental means of protecting and ensuring the fundamental rights of union citizens. the document in question is an important step in this direction. i believe that the limited comments received on europol's activities should not constitute an obstacle to the effective reorganisation of the mechanisms for cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in this area, in order to ensure efficiency and consistency and to avoid unnecessary duplication of work, without prejudice to the commission's right of initiative. i am confident that the adoption of the general data protection regulation and the data protection directive under consideration and the establishment of the cooperation board will accelerate these processes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in the vote because the functioning of europol in the emergency situation europe is currently experiencing following the influx of refugees requires greater cooperation between the supervisory authorities. member states' supervisory authorities should exchange information effectively in order to achieve better controls on those who come to the eu and those who commit crimes on eu territory. it is also clear that such cooperation to protect eu citizens must also involve eurojust. only then can we speak of a comprehensive approach to the problem addressed in the report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to facilitate the entry of students and researchers from third countries into the eu. the proposal lays down the conditions for the entry and residence on the territory of the member states of researchers, students, pupils, paid and unpaid trainees, volunteers and au pairs who are third-country nationals for a period exceeding three months. it lays down conditions for the reception of two groups of third-country nationals currently not covered by the legally binding eu legal framework, namely au pairs and paid trainees, which ensure their rights and protection. in the case of researchers with third-country nationality, the family, employment and mobility of family members in the eu will be facilitated. the proposal also provides for the granting of a long-term visa or residence permit to an applicant who fulfils all the conditions for admission in one member state. the proposal facilitates and simplifies the mobility of students and researchers (in particular those participating in the 'erasmus mundus' and 'marie curie' programmes) in the eu. the proposal gives students more rights to work part-time and allows students and researchers to stay in the territory for 12 months after completing their studies and/or research to explore employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the council position was adopted at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary service, pupil exchange programmes or educational projects and participation in an au pair programme. the european parliament and the commission understand that the provisions of this directive allow member states to reject an application only after having examined the particular circumstances of the case and having regard to the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality, and on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. the commission will ensure that, when transposing this directive into national law, member states implement this provision in accordance with this interpretation and inform the european parliament and the council accordingly, in accordance with their obligations. the european parliament and the commission consider that the inclusion of that provision in this directive should not be considered as a precedent for the future establishment of legal migration measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation of a directive. the european parliament and the commission consider that provisions of this directive regarding the right of every member state to reject the application should not be seen as setting a precedent for legal migration measures in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the new directive will enable european, including lithuanian, business and society to benefit from the knowledge acquired by researchers and students. the new amendments will facilitate the possibility for third-country students and researchers to stay for at least 9 months after the end of their studies or research in order to find a job or set up a business. the new directive also provides for certain rules on the entry and residence of trainees, volunteers, students, exchange students and au pairs in eu countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i consider that each member state should be allowed to decide for itself whether to reject or grant an application by a third-country national for the purpose of entry and residence for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid or unpaid traineeship, voluntary service and participation in the au pair programme. only the state itself, taking into account its current situation and national interest, can adequately control the entry, residence and expulsion of aliens from its territory and prevent possible abuses. however, it is essential to ensure that the specific circumstances, the principle of proportionality and the available evidence are duly taken into account in the examination of requests in each individual case.
in writing. ‒ third-country nationals working and studying in the european union make a significant contribution to strengthening europe's economic, intellectual and cultural potential. it is therefore essential to ensure that everyone who comes to the eu for mutually beneficial purposes - from researchers with a narrow specialization to aur pair nannies - has the right opportunities to do so. at the same time, we cannot allow the openness of the european union to the world to become a threat to the european union itself. i agree with the provisions in the document on the legal conditions for the residence of third-country nationals in the eu. at the same time, i would even suggest emphasising that the eu and the world are facing a variety of new security challenges and that additional security measures, additional checks, especially on those representing risk groups, should be tightened up.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it should clarify the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals on eu territory. at the same time, however, the eu institutions should not take over the prerogatives of the member states in this respect. it is very good that the report highlights the points in the directive which allow member states to reject applications in individual cases and taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national. this is an important observation, since when entering the territory of a particular eu member state, it is that state which should decide in the first place on the criteria for granting authorisations to study, carry out research and organise training. safety should be a primary consideration.
i welcome the fact that a working group has been set up in eight member states to improve the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at: faster implementation of cohesion policy. i support the calls for the commission to assess the use of the esi funds over the period 2014-2020. the commission and the member states should make full use of the esi funds to strengthen social and economic cohesion and reduce territorial disparities by enabling all regions to become more competitive and facilitating investment, including from private sources. in the 2007-2013 programming period, the main obstacles were the lack of suitable projects, the slow and long approval of large projects, as well as complex and time-consuming procurement procedures, complex state aid rules, complex authorisation procedures, unresolved property relations, an excessively long authorisation procedure and difficulties in obtaining funding. these problems must be resolved as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because cohesion policy is a tool for bringing the european union closer to its people and is the main investment and development policy covering all eu regions; and because in some member states cohesion policy is the main source of public investment. the 2014-2020 regulations provide for a number of key reforms to cohesion policy, such as thematic concentration of support, which creates the flexibility needed to take greater account of local needs, greater focus on results, better coordination with economic and social policies, better linking eu priorities to regional needs and more coordinated use of the european structural and investment (esi) funds under a common strategic framework. cohesion policy investments should be coordinated and coordinated with other eu policies, such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy, macro-regional strategies, the urban agenda, research and innovation, and transport policy, in order to contribute more effectively to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to assess the use of the esi funds for the period 2014-2020 and to prepare a detailed risk analysis of decommitment with the amounts for each member state and to analyse the payment forecasts submitted by the member states as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. nowadays, in a period of overcoming the consequences of the financial, economic and migratory crisis, the eu cohesion policy can help deliver more jobs, economic growth and energy efficiency. almost a third of the total eu budget – eur 351.8 billion – has been set aside for the cohesion policy in 2014-2020. to ensure maximum impact for these investments, more effective, efficient and timely use of cohesion policy support should be ensured.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution gives an overview of the 2007-2013 programming period, highlighting the main obstacles and problems that have hampered the implementation of cohesion policy insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, lack of suitable projects, slow and long approval of large projects, as well as complex and time-consuming procurement procedures, complex state aid rules, complex authorisation procedures, unresolved property relations, excessive length of the authorisation procedure and difficulties in obtaining funding i support the provisions in the resolution calling on the commission to take concrete steps to avoid these problems in the 2014-2020 period by strengthening the capacity of national, regional and local authorities to prepare project documents in a timely and efficient manner.
in writing. i support the resolution as a whole. it is essential to ensure that greater attention is paid to the implementation of cohesion policy. it should be noted that european cohesion policy is more than a simple redistribution of funds. this is the increase in efficiency in the lagging regions, ensuring balanced and sustainable development and citizens living throughout the country in addition, in order to reduce the gaps and disparities between regions more effectively, it is essential to assess the use of the esi funds over the period 2014-2020 and to align the esi and the esi funds. f. the targeted use of funds increases competitiveness and enables faster and more efficient use of resources. the economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i see a lot of very positive elements in mrs mikhailova's report. the call on the commission to assess the esif resources that individual member states may not be able to absorb, as mentioned in the first paragraph, looks very good. however, as a practitioner who has implemented structural fund projects on a number of occasions, i would like to point out that this approach is only theoretical. in practice, this will in particular create additional administrative burdens for member states' ministries, agencies and project promoters and will certainly not speed up project implementation. i also regret that the rapporteur did not find room to include an appeal to the commission to continue to actively combat the misappropriation of eu funds. the rapporteur rightly emphasises the link between administrative capacity, the principles of good governance and the rate of absorption of eu aid. the call on the commission to ensure that aid payments are made on time is also welcome. i am not sure that the call for the european investment bank to be more closely involved in the implementation of projects is a welcome step. instead, it would be more appropriate to invite the commission to look for better mechanisms for interaction with the private sector. given the lack of funding in the public sector, i propose to include a call on the commission to look for ways to harmonise the funding of the same or similar projects from different sources of eu support.
i welcome the fact that a working group has been set up in eight member states to improve the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes.
first of all, let us honestly ask ourselves whether we are seeking to solve the problems of migration in europe or whether we want to solve the problems of migrants flooding into europe at the expense of all the citizens of the european union. and if we choose the first option, neither the dublin treaty revision, nor the newly created european union agency for asylum, nor the computerised relocation mechanism, essentially resolves them. the dublin treaty provides sufficient leverage to regulate migration flows in europe properly. but there is one essential and enforceable condition. it is the strict and professional control of the european union's external borders. granted, without proper transportation, there would be no new king's clothes or newly invented bicycle. even though we're going to give turkey six billion euros in aid, and we're going to try to fine countries that don't want to share migrants a quarter of a million euros for every refugee that they don't accept.
in writing. the communication on the directive on parental leave raises issues of major importance for modern european society. europe is without doubt the most ageing continent. the birth rate and replacement rate for generations in the european union are incredibly low. there are a number of reasons for this situation, but the main one is the deviation from traditional european family values. no institutional solution will remedy this situation unless we try to restore the importance and special values of the family, with a place for mother, father and children. in recent decades, we have seen a dangerous and socially damaging trend towards the devaluation of the family in the public sphere and even an attempt to change the definition of the family. the countries that have chosen this wrong path face the greatest demographic challenges. to change that, we must remember the reasons why it happened. the first step is to restore the right order in the sphere of values, and then to concentrate on the means of resolving the most serious social crisis europe is experiencing. one such measure is the issue of parental leave. this leave must be supportive and not a threat to the functioning of the family and the decision to have children. it is therefore best to leave matters relating to parental leave to the member states which know best the needs of their citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened to the speakers with great attention and i want to reassure you that this is a priority for the commission. personally, sitting here and listening to the honourable members, i fully share the sense of urgency. we see and we hear these cases: each individual story, of a woman, a young girl, a child, is a human tragedy, and we need to combat these awful crimes against human dignity by all possible means. as i said before, we will continue to address trafficking in human beings and work towards its eradication. we are now developing a post-2016 policy, and elements raised in this report will be considered very carefully. i count on this parliament’s commitment and cooperation as a long-standing institutional partner in advancing our ambitious legal and policy framework to eradicate this scourge in our society.
the author. thank you, madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are discussing today the parliament's resolution on the crimean tatars the least we can do to help this unique community. i am sure that all thinking members of this parliament condemn the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula that took place last year. but it seems that the occupiers are not limited to seizing territory. they wanted to do something that showed signs of ethnic cleansing. you may have heard that the crimean tatars were one of the first peoples to be declared criminals. it is true that while similar actions by nazi germany have received international condemnation, the soviet union's actions in 1944 in declaring all crimean tatars criminals and deporting them from their places of birth have not yet been assessed. since 2014, the successor to the soviet union has been trying to repeat this barbaric practice, while russia has limited itself to criminalizing the main crimean tatar organization 'medzhlis', restricting the rights of crimean tatars, persecuting prominent figures in the crimean tatar community on fabricated charges, forcing several tens of thousands of tatars to leave their homes. a great resolution is before you. it provides comprehensive information on crimea, condemns russian repression, and expresses our support for the basic principles of democracy, human rights and international law, including the tatars in ukraine ... (end of speech)
author. – madam president, in 1738 crimea was occupied by the then tsarist russia. it was the first attempt at the novorossiya project. in reality, it meant the quick and ruthless russification of neighbouring lands. in may 1944, upon the order of stalin, 240 000 crimean tatars, the whole nation, were deported, mainly to central asia. thousands of people died on the way or in exile. total deportation was accomplished. today in crimea we observe a zealous continuation of ethnic cleansing policies. tatar leaders are banned from entering the peninsula. the mejlis, the local parliament, is declared to be unlawful, dozens of its activists are prosecuted, religion and culture are suppressed, tv and other media are closed down. the target of the occupation authorities is clear: that the crimean tatars shall not come into the future plans of putin’s crimea, and all this is happening in the europe of the 21st century. the banning of the mejlis is a violation of many international laws. i am more than convinced that those who stand behind this shameful court ruling, namely the so-called prosecutor-general and judges, must face very restrictive measures from the eu side. not doing so will be a mistake. crimea belongs to ukraine. there is no crimea without the crimean tatars.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the mandatory exchange of corporate tax returns in the eu. the new rules will require eu countries to automatically exchange information on the income, earnings or number of employees of large multinational corporations in order to combat tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. i agree that the european commission should be involved in the exchange of information between eu countries and that there should be penalties for companies that do not provide the required information. i agree that tax reports should be submitted to tax administrations by multinational groups with annual revenues exceeding eur 750 million.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the provisions of the council directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has grown significantly and is of great concern in the european union and globally. in its reports to the economic and monetary affairs and tax committees, parliament called for greater transparency in tax information to combat aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational groups. the member states do not share country reports with each other under the current legal framework (directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation third version currently in force). it is therefore urgent to increase transparency. to that end, it is necessary to improve the measures and mechanisms established by council directive 2011/16/eu. the european parliament therefore welcomes the commission's proposal as a positive step towards greater transparency. however, considers that the proposal would be more effective if the proposed amendments were adopted, which also provide for the exchange of information with the european commission, and calls on the commission to assess the member states' compliance with eu state aid rules on the basis of this information.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report. the matter of transparency and its instruments should be increased in the directive. therefore, the parliament encourages the commission to focus and review the mechanism of transparency in this regard.
in writing, the ep supports the proposed amendments to the directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information, which will help to improve the efficiency of tax collection and the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the eu must have effective measures to prevent and counter aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. in particular, eu countries must automatically exchange information on the income, earnings or number of employees of large multinational corporations. it is also essential to involve the european commission in the exchange of information between eu countries. in order to ensure an effective exchange of information, all information should be publicly available and transparent. the commission shall make public and accessible the reports received from the competent national authority. the information should be made available online. in addition, an effective control and surveillance mechanism should be in place. the penalties applicable to undertakings which fail to provide the required information should be appropriate.
in writing. ‒ as long as the tax systems of the member states remain separate, there will be a need to ensure that information on tax transactions is exchanged effectively between different member states. information technology provides us with this possibility of achieving a high quality of information exchange, and it is therefore our duty to make sure that the exchange of tax information is fast and full in order to ensure effective tax collection and combat tax evasion.
in writing. the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased significantly and is of great concern in the union and globally. in its reports to the econ and taxe committees, parliament called for greater transparency in tax information to combat aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing country-by-country reporting for multinational enterprise groups (megs). the member states do not share country reports with each other under the current legal framework (directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation third edition currently in force). it is therefore urgent to increase transparency. to that end, it is necessary to improve the measures and mechanisms established by council directive 2011/16/eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the traceability of fishery products in the catering and retail sectors. the eu is the largest seafood market in the world, supplied by the eu fisheries sector and imported from third countries. consumers have the right to information in plain language, including coastal and geographical information on catch zones, and should be able to have full confidence in the whole chain through which fishery products are brought to the eu market. unfortunately, there is a high level of improper labelling of fishery products sold on the eu market, including in the restaurants of the eu institutions. i support calls for member states to strengthen national controls, including controls on unprocessed fish for restaurants and catering, in order to tackle the problem of fraud and identify the stage in the supply chain where fish have been incorrectly labelled. i agree that a strong traceability system from landing to the consumer is needed to ensure consumer confidence and, in turn, reduce commercial dependence on imports of fishery and aquaculture products, thus strengthening the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because consumers have the right to be informed in a clear way, including the coastline and geographical information of the catch zones, and should be able to have full confidence in the whole chain through which fisheries products are brought to the eu market. the european union and the member states are obliged to protect eu citizens from unfair practices and all products imported must comply with eu rules and standards. parliament expressed its concern and dissatisfaction with the results of various studies which show a high level of improper labelling of fishery products sold on the eu market, including in eu institutions' restaurants. parliament therefore reiterates that intentional fraud in the labelling of fish species is a breach of eu regulations, including the common fisheries policy, and may be considered a criminal offence under national law. parliament therefore calls on the commission to monitor regularly the extent to which the necessary information is provided on labels. it also calls for labels to provide clear, verifiable and accurate information and calls on the commission and the member states to strengthen awareness-raising campaigns on labelling requirements for fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is necessary to tackle the problems of fraud in the trade in fish and fishery products. the study found that 6% of fish dishes sold in eu restaurants incorrectly indicate the species and origin of the fish, replacing high-quality species with lower-quality equivalents. i therefore support the calls in the ep resolution for the commission to present a plan of measures to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. in particular, it is necessary to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to establish a robust traceability system from landing to the consumer. the traceability of fishery products must be ensured at the various stages of production, processing and distribution from field to table. it is worth noting that the lengthening of the supply chain has facilitated the loss of quality of fishery products and their potential harm to the health of consumers. it is therefore essential that an effective control mechanism is in place involving all the responsible authorities and bodies. in addition, the commission and the member states should examine what measures could be taken to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products and to reduce commercial dependence on imports of fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. ‒ the recent scandal in brussels restaurants, which revealed that a large proportion of fish products in the european capital do not comply with the rules of origin, or even sometimes with their own name, has shown that the fisheries sector is facing major problems. i therefore call for the strengthening of rules of origin and traceability in the fisheries sector. european citizens have the right to know what they are eating! the eu institutions have a duty to ensure citizens' right to know what they eat!
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the traceability of fishery products in restaurants and identification in the retail trade. proper labelling is the basis for fair trade and services. consumers have the right to reliable and, above all, understandable information on the composition, expiry date, origin or price of the product. the requirements imposed on producers and traders help to protect the rights of eu citizens as consumers in this respect. for this reason, we should increase our requirements, especially for suppliers from third countries, in order to reach the european market with products from so-called aquaculture that meet our standards.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on china's market economy status. china supports its own business, makes extensive use of state aid and subsidises exports whose price does not match the laws of supply and demand. the country's excess production contributes to the low chinese exports to the eu, which is damaging for example to the eu steel industry. i support calls for the european commission to propose new anti-dumping rules. the commission must take into account the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and other stakeholders about the consequences for eu jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in all affected manufacturing sectors and for eu industry as a whole, and ensure that eu jobs are protected in this context. it is also necessary to pursue a comprehensive reform of the eu's trade defence measures, also with a view to ensuring a level playing field between the eu industry and china, as well as other trading partners, in full compliance with wto rules.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament examines the status of trade relations and market economy between the european union and china. parliament stressed the importance of the eu-china strategic partnership, in which free and fair trade and investment play a major role, but noted that china is not a market economy and that the five eu criteria for a market economy were not yet met. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to comply with the met/it requirements. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and various stakeholders about the consequences for eu jobs and sustainable economic growth in all affected manufacturing sectors and for eu industry as a whole, and to ensure the eu's global competitiveness. parliament also called on the commission to increase the effectiveness of the anti-dumping measure in order to ensure a level playing field between the eu industry and china, in full compliance with the rules of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. the best option would be to find a legal solution to satisfy the wto legal requirements but at the same time amend the legislation, securing the ability to continue using prices other than domestic ones for the calculation of normal value. this would head off legal challenges while retaining the tdi flexibility. the commission should come up with a balanced proposal that will take account of the eu’s legal obligations within the wto, and at the same time find the way to mitigate negative consequences for our industry.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the provisions of the ep resolution which stresses that china is not a market economy state. as long as it does not meet all five eu criteria for being a market economy country, the eu should apply certain measures in the context of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations concerning imports from china and price comparisons. the ep also draws attention in its resolution to the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and other stakeholders about the impact of china's economic policies on eu jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ china is a very important trading partner of the eu. unfortunately, this country is not one that is particularly scrupulous in its enforcement of fair competition rules and its dumped products often seriously undermine the attempts to restore the industry in europe. i therefore support the view that it is too early to talk about china being recognised as a functioning market economy.
in writing. i would stress that the chinese economy is not a market economy and that it does not meet the five eu criteria for a market economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals and the situation at hand. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a revised international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and update development strategies for the next 15 years and ensure that they are implemented. i support calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas. the eu sustainable development strategy and related implementation policies should be widely consulted by all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because a new global framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the different policies and eu actors. this requires further coordination, dialogue and cooperation between the eu institutions and their interactions at all levels, so that the three pillars of sustainable development (environment, economy and society) are integrated into the eu's internal and external policies. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a revised international commitment to eradicate poverty, to redefine and update our development strategies for the next 15 years and to ensure that we deliver on them. the european parliament calls on the commission to present a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas, with a detailed timetable until 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure to ensure full involvement of parliament, including a specific implementation plan. parliament also called on the commission to prepare a communication on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda and its review, including clear information on the implementation structure of the agenda at eu and member state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. it is important that the commission should include more policy areas (as for now only the environment, economic and social areas are included), so it would truly reach the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that fundamental changes and a complete overhaul of eu development policy are needed to achieve the sustainable development goals.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. the 2030 agenda is more ambitious and includes concrete actions not only for developing countries but also for developed countries. particular attention shall be paid to its implementation. it covers all three dimensions of sustainable development: environmental, social and economic. i believe that the commission should develop a sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas and providing for a comprehensive 2030 agenda and a timetable for its review. in addition, all stakeholders should be widely consulted on the eu sustainable development strategy and related implementation policies. in order to contribute to poverty eradication and sustainable development by 2030, it is essential to provide for appropriate and targeted aid programming and development cooperation, with due respect for the principles of aid effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted for this very important document. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid. but it is sad to read the document and see how even with the eu's massive support, the development goals are not being achieved. the destiny of the millennium development goals to end world poverty is worth something! i support the document, but i also ask the commission and all my colleagues: is there really a need to change the approach to development aid and to measure first the real results and the effectiveness of eu funding and then the role of the eu in strengthening it through corrective measures?
in writing. i would remind you that without a serious and tangible flow of economic resources, the ambitious objectives of the 2030 agenda cannot be effectively achieved.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to make the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foodstuffs compulsory. a 2013 european commission consumer survey showed that 9 out of 10 respondents consider it important to know the origin of food. i support calls for the european commission to come forward with rules to make the indication of the origin of these products compulsory. more detailed information would make the food supply chain more transparent by allowing the tracing of meat or milk suppliers, thus restoring the lost confidence of consumers. at present, only fresh beef and poultrymeat imported into the eu must be labelled, but i would welcome this requirement for other meat products.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foodstuffs. the food supply chain is often long and complex, involving many food business operators and other countries, with consumers increasingly unaware of how their food is produced and individual food business operators not always having a comprehensive view of the entire product chain. eu rules on origin labelling are already in place and are effectively applied to many other food products, including unprocessed meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables, fish, honey, in particular virgin olive oil, virgin olive oil, wine and spirits. the european parliament calls on the commission, when preparing proposals for legislative acts in this area, to implement a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for all types of drinking milk, milk products and meat products and to consider the possibility of applying a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance to other single ingredient foods or products containing one dominant ingredient. calls on the commission to submit proposals for legislative acts to make the indication of origin compulsory for processed foods containing meat, in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers following the horse scandal and other food fraud cases;
in writing. ‒ i voted against because mandatory origin labelling would entail a higher regulatory burden for most assessed products.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the mandatory indication of the country of origin of the meat and milk contained in processed products. i believe that the labelling of the origin of these products is a way of providing consumers with better information and restoring their confidence in foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the origin of food should be labelled. this is not only for technical reasons, but also to ensure that consumers are sure that they are buying the product they want. the debate on transitional periods is a mere rhetorical exercise, and seems to be particularly favoured by those who like to hide ingredients of uncertain origin under the same label.
article 26 (7) of the regulation on food information to consumers provides that these reports must take into account, inter alia, the consumer's need for information, the feasibility of mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance and a cost-benefit analysis of the establishment of such measures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this proposal on parental leave. parents who take these holidays are still quite rare, since it is usually the mother who takes them. to promote equal opportunities for women and men in combining their personal and professional lives, the eu has established common rules on childcare. however, differences between countries remain large, especially in terms of paid holidays. i agree with the recommendations made to promote balance in the area of parental leave. i agree that adequate pay for parental leave would help to achieve a fairer balance between work and family life for men and women.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on the commission to review the directive on parental leave and to report on the implementation of this directive. parliament also called on the commission to present a european legislative act on parental leave in order to achieve the best possible reconciliation of work and private life for families. the purpose of this report is to assess the implementation of legislation on parental leave in the various member states and to draw the necessary policy conclusions. the european commission was surprised that it did not want to report on the implementation of this directive itself. fortunately, a group of 33 national experts, the executive agency eurofound and various european researchers took on the task for her. this is indeed surprising given that the commission published an 'action plan' on work-life balance in the summer of 2015, which is inextricably linked to this legislation. on the issue of parental leave, the social partners were able to reach an agreement which was subsequently transposed into law by the european union, but on maternity leave, council and commission policy-makers were more inclined to leave the 1992 legal framework in place, despite the european parliament's many attempts to revive the process of adopting its revision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the promotion of individualisation of the right to leave and of positive action aiming at the promotion of the role of fathers is essential in helping to achieve gender balanced reconciliation of work and family life.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on parental leave and calls for parental leave to be extended to both mothers and fathers. it is indeed important to ensure that both parents have equal opportunities both in terms of benefits and in terms of the duration of parental leave. the resolution also calls for an extension of the period for which parental leave can be taken and for an increase in the age of the children for whom parental leave can be taken. i also support the provision that parents with disabled children should be granted longer leave.
in writing. ‒ the right to parental leave is a very important aid that the state can provide for family formation. i am convinced that the establishment of sufficiently generous minimum standards at european union level, such as a sufficient duration of at least six months, a minimum duration of paid maternity leave with the possibility of extending it to examples of good practice such as lithuania, where young mothers or fathers can take up to two or even three years of maternity leave; as well as the possibility of paternity leave, the right to other state aid would make a significant contribution to the creation of a more sustainable and more life-friendly europe.
in writing. i believe that the directive should be reconsidered, including the adoption of measures to introduce appropriate and incentive-based financial compensation for the loss of income of parents on parental leave, in order to ensure the social and economic well-being of families and to encourage parents to take parental leave. stress the importance of adopting a holistic approach to any review of this directive, including maternity, paternity and parental leave.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. human trafficking is a form of modern slavery that brings millions of dollars in profits to organized crime every year. i agree with the recommendations that the deliberate exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings should be considered a crime. prevention is essential in the fight against trafficking in human beings and member states must ensure that every possible effort is made to prevent people from becoming victims in particular. initiatives to address gender inequality and empower women and girls could reduce their vulnerability to trafficking. education and empowerment programmes would help to achieve this. under this directive, member states are required to ensure that persons, units or services responsible for investigating or prosecuting cases of trafficking in human beings are adequately trained. training programmes should be further extended to include other relevant professionals, including but not limited to police officers, judges, lawyers, medical and social workers who are in direct contact with victims.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the implementation of the directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims with regard to the gender dimension. trafficking in human beings, as defined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, constitutes a violation of fundamental rights, it is also a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious organised crime that damages the state and undermines the rule of law. this directive aims to improve the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings and to reduce the vulnerability of potential victims. it is generally acknowledged that this directive is a comprehensive piece of legislation with a commendable approach to human rights and a clear focus on the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings. although victims are of different genders, age groups and backgrounds, statistics clearly show that the majority of victims (80%) are women and girls. gender is a factor in vulnerability for both men and women. women's vulnerability is linked to barriers to education, gender pay gaps, unequal access to decent work, gender-based violence, unemployment and underemployment, increasing poverty and migration among women, gender-sensitive development strategies, strict migration laws and policies, and armed conflict. these differences mean that women are less likely to perceive their experiences as exploitation, as they perceive it as their role as caregivers and service providers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. member states should do more to protect victims of human trafficking, especially women who make up 80% of trafficked persons, yet their specific needs are not being taken into account. eu legislation meant to protect victims of trafficking is not being properly implemented. trafficked people must be treated as victims, not criminals, and given enough support to recover and return to a normal life.
in writing. ‒ the trafficking in persons report assesses the current situation, the various eu initiatives to combat this problem. it is noted that there are no adequate measures at european level to combat trafficking in human beings, in particular the sexual exploitation of women and children, in a joint effort. the communication calls for a wide range of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings, such as legal assistance in court proceedings and in seeking compensation for damages in order to prosecute and convict traffickers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. human trafficking is one of the most serious forms of organised crime, spreading with alarming speed in all regions of the world. it is therefore necessary to put in place effective measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including prevention, protection of the human rights of victims and prosecution of traffickers. it is important to understand that a person of any age, gender or social status can become a victim of human trafficking. however, the most common victims are the socially vulnerable. it is therefore essential that victims of trafficking in human beings have access to legal aid not only during criminal proceedings but also during all civil, labour and other proceedings. victims of trafficking in human beings should also be systematically informed about the possibility of benefiting from the recovery and reflection period.
in writing. - trafficking in human beings - the shame of mankind. at the same time, human trafficking is a lucrative illegal business for some. it is difficult to deal with, but the experience of the past few hundred years shows that it is possible. the beginning has already been made. in most of the world, trafficking in human beings is criminalised and punishable. the next steps are more complex. in particular, it is necessary to ensure that legislation condemning trafficking in human beings is unconditionally enforced. and that's not the easiest task, especially given the amount of money involved in human trafficking. next comes the task ahead of us: reducing demand, educating the public to create a global awareness that human trafficking is a reprehensible thing, not appropriate in the modern world. and it is precisely this education as a preventive measure that needs to be given the greatest attention in both supply and demand countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is clear that trafficking in human beings is one of the greatest crimes against humanity, which directly affects human dignity, freedom and humanity. there is, of course, only one way to stop this practice - by consistently prosecuting traffickers and making punishment inevitable. both of these measures will not only have the necessary impact in a specific timeframe, but preventive action would also be a consequence of them. we, the european parliament, must support this legal change, which will help to stop one of the most violent crimes that should not be in the 21st century.
in writing. i welcome the commission's creation of a website on combating trafficking in human beings, which contains a database of eu-funded projects in the eu and elsewhere, as well as updated information on eu legal and policy instruments, measures to combat trafficking in human beings in the member states, access to funding and eu initiatives.
in writing. – transatlantic data flows between eu and us intensify rapidly with every year. since the european court of justice ruled the previous safe harbour as inoperative, we should aim to create a new ambitious framework for secure data exchange. i support ec position that eu- us privacy shield should impose stronger obligations to u.s. companies. u.s. should completely abstain from indiscriminate mass surveillance, it should commit itself to more transparency and as well to a better cooperation with european data protection authorities. eu privacy shield has to serve the interests of eu citizens and european companies. any access by u.s. public authorities to personal data must be a subject to clear safeguards.
in writing. first of all, i would like to stress that the energy union should provide citizens with stable, affordable, sustainable, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as high-quality energy-efficient products, services and buildings. the energy transition should aim at a more efficient, transparent, sustainable, competitive, stable, decentralised and inclusive energy system that benefits society as a whole, ensures greater participation of citizens, local and regional entities and communities and empowers them to produce, distribute and store energy from renewable sources themselves or to share responsibility for energy production, while protecting the most vulnerable and ensuring access to energy efficiency measures and energy from renewable sources. we therefore call on the commission to analyse the issue of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, in particular by natural monopolies such as distribution network operators, in the energy market. furthermore, the commission and the member states should take the necessary measures to ensure that the benefits of the increase in capacity of the interconnectors of national networks are not passed on to distribution system operators but directly to final customers. we also call for better coordination at eu level to tackle energy poverty, sharing best practice across member states and developing a broad, common, but non-quantitative definition of energy poverty, which underlines the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right.
in writing. mr president, energy is one of the most important issues in the european union. this is also an important issue for eu citizens, especially those living in the new member states. eu policy in this sector should move towards the introduction of regulation aimed at reducing energy prices, primarily for households rather than industry. it is the ordinary people and families who feel the most about the energy costs in their budgets. they should be the ones who are best protected. a truly competitive, transparent and convenient system for retail consumers is needed in the energy market. in addition, in order to effectively tackle energy shortages, member states must fully implement the provisions relating to switching suppliers. national legislation should ensure that consumers have the right to change service providers quickly and easily without incurring additional charges. in order to protect consumers, in particular the most vulnerable, it is necessary to introduce appropriate implementation and enforcement of rules on unfair commercial practices and on consumer rights in relation to resales, unfair terms or aggressive marketing practices. let us remember that in a well-functioning energy system, the key role is played by local authorities, cooperatives and individuals, who should be encouraged to become energy producers if they so wish. this is a future project which we as the eu should support, because it can really help stabilise energy prices.
thank you, chairman. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the milk crisis is not new. it's been going on for a long time. this shows that there is a significant delay in developing measures to combat it. while the agencies are deliberating on what to do, farmers are hurt, and processors and traders often try to profit from the situation. i have repeatedly said that only compulsory, rather than voluntary, milk controls can help to solve the milk crisis. another important problem is the uneven and unfair system of direct payments. they are designed to reduce the negative impact of market fluctuations on the farmer's results and thus stabilise his income. however, lithuania is one of the countries with the lowest direct payments. this means that our farmers are forced to compete on unequal terms, and the costs are similar. i therefore call for a review of the direct payments system as soon as possible and for their harmonisation.
mr president, colleagues! milk is indeed one of the most important agricultural products for the european union. it accounts for about one sixth of all agricultural production and it is natural that producers are affected by the milk crisis that occurs from time to time, with the main problem being the price of milk and the failure of farms. as mr ropė has just said, lithuania's milk producers are mostly small, three quarters of the milk market is supplied by farms with fewer than five cows, and the purchase prices dictated by processors are not within the bounds of common sense today. a liter of milk costs 19 cents in lithuania. within a month, the purchase price dropped by seven percent. i'm asked at meetings if there's a chance that our grandchildren will see cows not in the fields, but in the pictures. the payments to lithuanian farmers are also much lower than those to farmers in other countries in europe. the existing milk quotas have served as a good enough means of adjusting milk buying-in prices. it is a bit strange for us to not have any quotas, but to have to protect the external borders of the european union, i mean the migrants, and we introduce quotas, and where they are needed, we take them and we cancel them, thus creating another crisis. and in this situation, not only financial support for milk producers is needed, but also temporary tax and loan incentives. it is necessary to review the legal provisions for processors and milk suppliers. to define more precisely the lowest possible price range in contracts with processors. the milk cooperatives should be taxed less, and they should look for ways and means, not wait.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would also like to support and thank the rapporteur for an excellent performance so far. the single market, however, is underperforming in almost all areas and we do need some stimulation in a digital-driven market. we need to encourage start-ups, integration of global supply chains and dealing with new business models, which is a challenge to us, ensuring market facilitation and stabilisation, and licensing of professionals. also, the draft report recognises the overall support initiatives of the single market, which is important. we need a single market for services. the service passport initiative should not only address administrative obstacles, but also tackle regulatory barriers and advance mutual recognition of priority sectors. so we really need to focus on this passport initiative. you should also look at useless labelling of products. we tend to have this problem, so we need to fix this and we need to think about digital solutions in the labelling area. an overload of information does confuse the consumers. we also need to tackle geo—blocking. the proposal that was proposed by the commission yesterday is definitely a step in the right direction. i personally look positively at the collaborative sharing economy. it brings competition to the market and gives us a new start in so many areas, which means better and less expensive services for all europeans. let us embrace it. let us be ambitious and create a better functioning single market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was parliament's response to the growing popularity of virtual currencies. in order to prevent virtual currencies such as bitcoin from opening up avenues for money laundering and terrorist financing, the european commission should set up a working group to monitor the use of these currencies. this expert group should pool the experience and knowledge available on virtual currencies, analyse their risks and benefits and make recommendations on the possible proportionate regulation of virtual currencies, which would not hinder the development of innovation. in its resolution, parliament supported prior surveillance rather than blind regulation. information technologies are spreading very fast and becoming systems, and we call on the european commission to set up a working group to monitor the development of these technologies and to be ready to propose new rules whenever and if needed. the european parliament welcomed the european commission's plans to include virtual currency exchange platforms in eu anti-money laundering rules. this would remove the anonymity associated with such platforms and reduce the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is important to present not only possible risks, but also opportunities which open up while using virtual currencies. it is important to positively welcome this new technology, let it evolve and then, knowing better the real situation, to apply the regulation which would fit the best.
in writing. ‒ i believe that virtual currencies offer a number of opportunities for businesses and consumers, and contribute to economic development, but that to prevent new types of abuse and illegal operations, it is necessary to strengthen supervision and regulation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. there is an urgent need to adapt to changing markets and consumer needs, as information technologies are spreading very rapidly and becoming systems. it should be noted that in a crisis, virtual currency can be a solution to the problems of currency depreciation or settlement. in addition, virtual money schemes are much more rapidly integrated in countries facing economic or political turmoil. it is therefore essential to strengthen controls on the use of virtual currencies. in order to reduce the opportunities for money laundering and terrorist financing that these currencies provide, it is appropriate to establish a special group to make proposals for their regulation. i support the proposal to include virtual currency exchange platforms in the anti-money laundering rules.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are still a new financial instrument and technological phenomenon and deserve special attention for this reason alone, in addition to their potential impact on the global economy. they reduce transaction and transaction-related payment costs by up to a quarter or even a seventh and can have an economic impact of up to eur 20 billion worldwide, they increase the resilience and speed of payment systems and trade in goods and services, they increase security and at the same time they open up new types of abuses and illicit transactions. i am therefore convinced that the virtual currency area deserves careful oversight, but one that would encourage the development of this highly competitive area rather than inhibiting this opportunity to increase europe's global competitiveness. in this respect, while distributed ledger technologies are developed by non-state actors, they remain an area that must be closely monitored by responsible authorities, discussed in political control bodies such as the european parliament, and successfully integrated into everyday life and used to enhance competitiveness.
in writing. i would stress that virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology have the potential to make a significant contribution to the well-being of citizens and economic development (including in the financial sector) by: (a) reducing the costs of transaction and transaction-related payments (in particular cross-border money transfer transactions); (b) reducing, in a broader sense, the costs of accessing finance even without a traditional bank account and therefore potentially increasing financial inclusion; (c) increasing the resilience of payment systems and trade in goods and services and, depending on the architecture of the scheme concerned, the speed of the use of a substantially decentralised distributed ledger technology structure that can operate reliably; and (d) enabling systems that are easy to use and ensure low transaction and transaction costs and a high level of privacy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the one where parliament decided to approve the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund to france to help the 2 132 workers made redundant by the company 'moryglobal sas', which operates in the inland transport and pipeline transport sector. the french authorities argue that the redundancies were due to the bankruptcy and closure of the company. the commission notes that the bank of france has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections. the global financial and economic crisis is thought to have led to a decline in road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes of 13.7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012 (eurostat). this decrease is linked to a decrease in overall physical activity in europe. the decline in freight transport has led to a price war in the sector, which was further aggravated by the trend of growth in various other costs (fuel, wages, materials), which has led to a steady decline in operating margins and an increase in losses in the sector in france since 2007.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. on 19 november 2015, france submitted an application to receive financial assistance from the egf in the form of an application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal following the redundancies in france of 2132 workers employed by moryglobal sas. the ep welcomes the fact that the french application is not for benefits but for measures with real added value to ensure the future reintegration of the dismissed workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. i am in favour of mobilising the fund's resources to help reduce the social impact of the french company. the financial support provided will help the redundant workers to remain competitive in the labour market and will increase their employment opportunities. in particular, assistance will be provided for job search, vocational training and retraining. it should be noted that the support is targeted at measures adapted to individual needs and with real added value in ensuring the future reintegration of the dismissed workers into the labour market. i believe that every country where redundancies have not only had a strong impact on the local labour market but also caused painful social consequences should be encouraged to make more active use of all the opportunities offered by the fund to reduce unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the economic downturn has also hit the european road transport sector hard. the application in question therefore comes from a sector whose employees, in this case former employees, are in need of european support. i therefore vote against and urge my colleague to support this proposal.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the measures for which egf support is requested do not include measures referred to in article 7 (1) (b) of the egf regulation, i.e. payments, but support is directed to measures with a real added value in ensuring the future reintegration of the workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the parliament's decision to approve the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund to greece to help 557 workers made redundant by the cooperative 'supermarket larissa' of small food shops. this financial support will also aim to help 543 targeted young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets). the greek authorities argue that the redundancies are due to the bankruptcy and closure of the shops of the cooperative 'supermarket larissa', which was caused by a decline in the purchasing power of greek households and a drastic reduction in the provision of loans to companies and individuals. the tailor-made services to be provided to dismissed workers and neets comprise five types of measures: career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, business start-up support, participation and training allowances, and mobility allowance. one of the vocational guidance measures is the launch of information campaigns specifically targeting neets in order to identify a target group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the ep endorses the proposal to grant financial assistance to greece from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aid is granted to the regions of central macedonia and thessaly following the bankruptcy of the company 'supermarket larissa abee'. the purpose of the support is to retrain workers in accordance with their needs and those of the business environment.
in writing. ‒ i have to admit that it seems strange when a shopping centre network asks for support from the globalisation adjustment fund. as is well known, large retailers are able to survive economic downturns by shifting their costs onto suppliers and buyers. in a specific case, it is quite possible that the 'supermarket larissa' company also passes on part of its costs to the redundant workers and to the european union by requesting support from them. if this case were not from the region of thessaly, which is characterised by very high unemployment and long-term unemployment, i would be inclined to insist on a further thorough examination of the merits of this application. in this case, in keeping with the principle of european solidarity and in view of the still difficult situation in greece, i am inclined to support the proposal.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the greek authorities have started to provide personalised services to the affected workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of mr gianluca buonanno. the deputy prosecutor of the vercelli tribunal has sent a request for authorisation to call on telephone companies to provide data relating to the telephone number used by gianluca buonanno, member of the european parliament elected in italy, in connection with the criminal proceedings brought against him before the vercelli tribunal for the telephone threats he claims to have received from an anonymous person on his mobile phone on 14 april 2015. the legislation provides that, where necessary to obtain data relating to the telephone conversations of a member of parliament, the competent authority should request permission from the chamber of parliament of which the person is a member. the parliament's decision notes that, in his request for the waiver of immunity, the deputy prosecutor for the vercelli tribunal acknowledges that it is not clear whether this parliamentary privilege also applies in cases where a member of parliament is a suspected victim of a crime. however, it concludes that the best interpretation of national legislation is that this privilege should apply to members of parliament irrespective of their procedural status.
in writing. ‒ in order to allow the italian law enforcement authorities to investigate possible criminal activities, it is necessary to waive the legal immunity of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this issue is not worth discussing in principle my colleague gianluca buonanno, according to his own words, has received threats by telephone. in order to investigate these threats, it is necessary to ensure that the investigating authority has access to the member's record of mobile telephone conversations on the day on which he claims to have received the threatening calls. so the best thing we can do is to give the italian law enforcement the opportunity to investigate, by revoking our colleague's legal immunity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament discusses the emergency situation in sweden due to the sudden influx of third-country nationals into its territory. the number of persons seeking international protection in sweden has increased significantly due to the significant increase in the number of irregular border crossings into the european union and secondary movements in europe. in 2015, sweden registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu (11 503 applicants per million inhabitants); by march 2016, a total of 170 104 applicants had arrived in sweden, of whom 73 331 were children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. the situation in sweden is thus further complicated by the recent sharp increase in the number of unaccompanied minors (one in four applicants claims to be an unaccompanied minor). the situation described has created a serious burden on the swedish asylum system and has had serious practical consequences for the reception conditions and the asylum system's ability to process applications. the current migration situation in sweden is therefore a specific one for the european union and, in view of the pressure on its ability to process applications for international protection and to provide adequate reception conditions for persons in clear need of international protection, it is necessary to suspend sweden's obligations under the relocation mechanism and, where appropriate, to provide operational assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. i support the relocation proposals which are based on a fair distribution to provide increased solidarity and responsibility sharing between member states. this proposal would suspend sweden’s participation in the relocation scheme.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to suspend the refugee relocation mechanism to sweden, which has recently been facing an unusually high influx of migrants. in 2015, sweden registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu.
in writing. i agree with the report. in view of the current situation and the problems facing sweden, provisional measures in the area of international protection should be established for sweden, as for italy and greece. it is worth noting that sweden is facing one of the largest migrant crises and cannot solve the problems associated with high immigration. the refugee crisis has a very negative impact on the social welfare system of the state and on the whole welfare model. in 2015, the country registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu. it is therefore essential that sweden be granted the right to suspend its obligations under the relocation mechanism and should also be granted operating aid.
in writing. ‒ as you know, sweden recorded the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu in 2015 (11 503 applicants per million inhabitants). in total, 170 104 applicants arrived in sweden until march 2016, of whom 73 331 are children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. in this context, sweden's request for certain safeguard measures appears to be very well founded and reasoned.
in writing. sweden has experienced an emergency situation with a sudden influx of third-country nationals due to a sudden change in migration flows. sweden faces problems both as a country of first entry and as a country of final destination.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament stresses the importance of the transatlantic relationship, which is essential for both partners. it also stresses that the us-eu comprehensive solution should respect data protection and privacy rights. the protection of personal data, including when transferred to its main international trading partner, is one of the eu's core objectives, and parliament therefore insists that the privacy shield regime comply with eu primary and secondary law, as well as with the relevant judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights. the european parliament recognises that the 'privacy shield' is part of a broader dialogue between the eu and third countries, including the united states, on data privacy, trade, security and related rights and common interest objectives, and therefore calls on all parties to work together to develop and sustainably improve effective and common international frameworks and national legislation to achieve those objectives. it also insists that legal certainty in relation to transfers of personal data between the eu and the us is essential to ensure consumer confidence, transatlantic business development and law enforcement cooperation, and that in order to ensure effective and durable transfers, the means by which such transfers are envisaged must be in line with eu primary and secondary law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the free cross-border data flows between the us and the eu are of paramount importance for us and eu trade and investment, as consumers from the two sides of the atlantic are increasingly using the internet to purchase goods and services from each other’s marketplaces. free flow of data for intracompany purposes has become a daily occurrence, and investment in data centres that provide access to the cloud in the us and the eu relies on cross-border data flows.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution on transatlantic data flows, as it calls on the institutions responsible to ensure an adequate level of protection of eu citizens' personal data, to prevent mass data tracking and to guarantee an effective mechanism for the protection of eu citizens' privacy rights.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. the transfer and exchange of personal data is an essential element of the close relationship between the eu and the us. the scale of cross-border data flows between the united states and europe is the largest in the world. it is therefore necessary to ensure a high level of data protection and appropriate safeguards and to promote and develop more actively the international standard for the protection of privacy and personal data. s. clear and uniform rules are the key to business development and growth s. the security shield regime should comply with eu primary and secondary law as well as relevant judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data by the member states in the event of the processing of personal data by the commission is based on the principle of proportionality. i have faith.
in writing. ‒ in a figurative sense, the atlantic is the inland sea of the western world and therefore everything related to the exchange of goods, services, information, human contacts or anything else in this region deserves our utmost attention. the issue of transatlantic data exchange is also relevant today because data exchange is the driving force behind the modern information society. we must make every effort to maximise the flow of data both within our continent and with our strategic partners.
in writing. i am concerned that the privacy shield system may not fully comply with the requirements of the eu charter of fundamental rights, the data protection directive, the general data protection regulation and the relevant judgments of the eu court of justice and the european court of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines a package of measures to provide new opportunities for energy consumers. although some progress has been made, the objective of the third energy package to create a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved in all eu member states, as shown by the still high levels of market concentration, the lack of reflection of the decline in wholesale prices in retail prices in some member states, the sluggish switching of consumers and low satisfaction. the european parliament therefore considers that the commission should establish or develop additional indicators for well-functioning and consumer-friendly energy markets. furthermore, stresses that the economic impact on consumers switching suppliers, technical barriers to switching suppliers or to the plan and the level of consumer awareness should be taken into account. parliament considers that open, transparent and competitive markets with proper regulation are important in order to reduce prices, stimulate innovation, improve customer service and remove barriers to innovative new business models that can offer great value to citizens, providing them with opportunities and helping to avoid energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the main goal is to make energy consumers just as well informed and empowered as buyers and sellers operating on wholesale energy markets. this can be achieved through clearer billing and advertising rules, trustworthy price comparison tools and by leveraging schemes such as collective switching and energy cooperatives.
in writing. ‒ i believe that liberalisation of the energy sector and real competition between service providers in this area will not only ensure greater consumer choice but also lower energy prices.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the eu must do more to tackle energy shortages and protect vulnerable consumers. better coordination at eu level is needed to tackle energy poverty. common guidelines should be established to help combat this social phenomenon. it is also essential to establish a common definition of energy poverty. in order to better assess the situation of energy poverty in europe, it is necessary to harmonise existing statistics. it should be noted that access to affordable energy is a social right and that vulnerable citizens with low incomes should be subject to social tariffs. they must also have access to innovative technologies that optimise energy consumption. the increase should be allocated to energy efficiency improvements in the building sector. member states should provide for certain support measures for low-income persons to help overcome the difficulties they face.
in writing. ‒ competition and freedom of choice are one of the european union's fundamental values. in recent years, we have seen competition enter the energy sector, which was previously dominated by public or private monopolies. the commission's recent proposals for a better choice of energy service providers for consumers are a significant step towards ensuring real competition in the energy sector. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that the legal regulation of freedom of choice should have at least two positive side effects: on the one hand, the need to calculate such difficult to calculate indicators as the origin of energy will give an additional impetus to the development of information technology. on the other hand, the choice should encourage more conscious consumers to opt for green energy, which in turn should further accelerate the development of renewable and green energy.
in writing. i welcome the commission's intention to include energy-specific legislation in the annex to the regulation on consumer protection cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which places a strong emphasis on the problems of poverty and social exclusion of women. many of parliament's resolutions call for action to combat the causes and consequences of the various aspects of poverty. however, it should be noted that despite the efforts made, little progress was made in 2015 on this issue. the economic crisis, from which the eu is gradually recovering, has led to an increase in the number of persons (men and women) at risk of poverty and social exclusion in statistics. however, on average, more women than men are living in poverty, especially if they are single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or disabled. many women are in low-wage jobs, in retirement, in so-called women's jobs (health care, cooking, etc.) and in part-time work, more because they have to provide for their families than because they choose to. the gender pay gap and the different pensions (the fruit of a career that has been divided into two, with a harmonious balance between work and private life) place a heavy burden on women in financial difficulty and daily uncertainty about their economic independence. this report explains the persistent inequalities faced by women. it highlights the efforts that the eu and the member states must make to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, has equal opportunities in employment, social protection, pay, education, childcare and culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. in europe there are now more than 65 million women living in poverty compared to 57 million men. poverty causes women’s social exclusion, in terms of access to public transport, healthcare, housing or culture and has a negative impact on their children. more efforts need to be made by the member states to ensure equal opportunities in employment, social security, pay, education and childcare.
in writing. ‒ according to various studies and reports, on average more women than men are living in poverty. this is due to a variety of reasons: women often receive lower pay for the same work than men, they receive lower pensions and they work in lower-paid jobs. i support the position taken by the european parliament in its report that everyone, regardless of gender, should have equal opportunities in employment, social protection, pay, education, childcare and culture.
in writing. ‒ measures need to be put in place to help ensure a poverty-balance between work and private life in all member states and to ease some of the burden on families. in particular, flexible working hours and remote working arrangements should be introduced. women and men must be given the same guarantees in child-rearing to encourage retention in the labour market, learning and upskilling. the commission must step up its efforts to implement the european child guarantee. particular attention must be paid to the establishment of public and private care and support infrastructures for children and other dependants. in addition, the flexibility instrument provided for in the stability and growth pact should be made available for financing projects in the field of early childhood education and care. i support the proposals to increase the minimum duration of fully paid maternity leave and to provide for a mandatory right to paid parental leave and to introduce nursing leave.
in writing. ‒ poverty is a horizontal problem, so to speak, affecting people regardless of their gender. the fact that parliament has produced a report on the gender dimension in anti-poverty policy is important and should help to better develop targeted measures to help people of each gender to get out of poverty. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of semantic formulation - we should not talk so much about overcoming poverty as about helping the poor themselves to get out of poverty - whether it be through the provision of jobs or additional financial and material support. i am not convinced that the eu or the member states should take full responsibility for lifting out of poverty those who do not want to contribute to it themselves. i do not want to point fingers, but the experience of some member states in trying to tackle the problem of poverty is that for the fourth generation people are living on welfare. let's change our attitude and give people a mash instead of a fish that they may not like very much!
in writing. i support the contribution of voluntary organisations and the service sector in this area and urge member states to support their activities; i recall the active participation of women in voluntary education and other activities, including support for and improvement of educational opportunities, such as educational services for refugees and disadvantaged children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the report highlights the barriers that smes face when trying to trade across the eu, which include unjustified national technical rules, regulatory and non-regulatory requirements governing products, service providers and terms of service provision, or bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ removing non-tariff barriers will help businesses in the eu, but consumers will benefit the most. this is confirmed by a study commissioned by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which notes that the single market benefits some companies, in particular the most competitive and innovative, but all consumers, through lower prices and greater choice. therefore, in the interests of all member states and the european parliament, it is in the interest of our european consumers to remove these non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the effective functioning of the single market requires the removal of non-tariff barriers which impede its functioning and which are contrary to the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination and incompatible with the public policy objectives of a country. the removal of customs duties and non-tariff barriers between eu countries will allow businesses to exploit the potential of trade between them ̨. particular attention should be paid to the complex non-tariff barriers s. furthermore, further development of the e-administration and electronic registration system is needed to simplify procedures and reduce the administrative burden on service providers s. it should be noted that not all ntbs need to be removed s. the principle of subsidiarity and multi-level governance must be strictly respected member states must be allowed to take measures which are proportionate and based on legitimate public policy objectives s
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are still a new financial instrument and technological phenomenon and deserve special attention for this reason alone, in addition to their potential impact on the global economy. they reduce transaction and transaction-related payment costs by up to a quarter or even a seventh and can have an economic impact of up to eur 20 billion worldwide, they increase the resilience and speed of payment systems and trade in goods and services, they increase security and at the same time they open up new types of abuses and illicit transactions. i am therefore convinced that the virtual currency area deserves careful oversight, but one that would encourage the development of this highly competitive area rather than inhibiting this opportunity to increase europe's global competitiveness. in this respect, while distributed ledger technologies are developed by non-state actors, they remain an area that must be closely monitored by responsible authorities, discussed by political control bodies such as the european parliament, successfully integrated into everyday life and used to enhance competitiveness.
in writing. i welcome the peer review process carried out over the last two years; i believe that well-designed and open peer review processes in the member states, which encourage open discussion, can be effective in promoting change; i encourage the member states and the commission to extend this practice, in particular to other areas of the single market regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the report highlights the key areas of eu single market strategy, which aims to ensure the free movement of goods within the market, the freedom to provide services, especially for start-ups and smes, and to set high safety standards for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the strategy 'making the single market better: more opportunities for citizens and businesses' is seen as a complementary and further instrument to achieve the objectives of the single market. the communication sets out a number of significant actions to help remove barriers to its development, such as the vat action plan, the legislative initiative on business insolvency, the service provider passport and legislative actions to prevent discrimination against consumers on grounds of nationality or country of residence. these specific measures will have not only a direct but also a leveraged effect on the market and on strengthening consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the the single market offers opportunities to increase the competitiveness of the european economy. therefore, decisive action is needed to strengthen the integration of the single market. the eu's single market must be stronger and fairer. the potential of the single market must be fully exploited, providing more opportunities for consumers and businesses and stimulating modernisation and innovation. in order to ensure more effective enforcement and better regulation, it is necessary to reduce the administrative burden and compliance costs for undertakings and to eliminate unnecessary legislation. smes and start-ups should be assisted in addressing their challenges. in view of the rapid growth of the social economy, there is a need to support social enterprises. it should be noted that insolvency procedures should be harmonised across the eu and that the commission should therefore pay greater attention to the implementation of legislative initiatives on corporate insolvency. the framework standards for public-private partnerships in the member states should also be harmonised.
in writing. ‒ the report on the single market strategy, drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament, is of particular relevance to europe today as it seeks to respond to the economic recession and the crisis of agricultural overproduction. we support the overall objectives set out by the commission in its strategy for a single market in goods and services 'making the single market better: more opportunities for citizens and businesses' and actions to unlock the potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses, especially start-ups, to increase sustainable jobs and to stimulate the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises. it should be stressed that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, which is about to begin, should also include new objectives, in particular the achievement of a competitive social market economy by 2020, while ensuring sustainable economic growth. i personally see a lack of attention being paid to the issue of fair competition, the abuse of dominant power. this is precisely what is significantly contributing to the current crisis in the dairy sector in many eu countries. the draft parliament resolution also correctly mentions other areas that have been neglected, namely the exploitation of the potential of labour-intensive sectors such as retail and accommodation services to create new jobs, to integrate and to tackle youth unemployment. we have a strong focus on innovation, but we cannot ignore the less innovative sectors, which are no less important for the economy. the draft resolution makes almost a hundred recommendations on how to improve the work of the commission and the member states in this area, and i very much hope that it will be adopted.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the report by mr comi, member of the european parliament, because the single market was and is the foundation of eu integration and is a driving force for sustainable growth and job creation, facilitating trade across the eu. legislation and action at eu level should therefore be part of a single strategic vision and should therefore be consistent and non-contradictory. it is worth noting that the report presented to parliament unequivocally stresses the need to develop a new strategy for the single market, complementing action in other areas. this should be a complex of actions, firstly, to accelerate the creation of sustainable jobs and to improve the material situation of european citizens through practical measures such as attracting investors to the european union and developing the global competitiveness of european companies. it is important that the proposals under discussion are in line with the principles of better regulation.
in writing. i support the overall objectives set out in the commission's strategy for a single market in goods and services improving the single market: more opportunities for citizens and businesses and welcome its actions in the key areas to unlock the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses, especially start-ups, to increase sustainable jobs and to foster and develop smes.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this engaging debate. i have taken careful note of your remarks and i am grateful for the help in our reflections on the way ahead. let me take a couple of specific points which were mentioned in the report and which were brought up during the debate. first of all, we all agree that the coherence of all european union policies is a key issue and is enshrined in the lisbon treaty. you mentioned important issues relating to tax evasion and tax avoidance, tax loopholes and tax havens. all these things are, of course, very important today and we must address those challenges. the refugee problem was also mentioned, as well as issues related to human rights. there were also questions about ttip and about our treaties with japan. the european union takes into account sustainable development in its trade agreements. first, impact assessments are carried out. second, chapters on sustainable development are part of the agreements. all trade agreements are decided on according to well—established rules involving the european parliament. i agree that ensuring effective coordination in our daily work and placing policy coherence for development within the 2030 agenda for sustainable development are key. we stand ready to work closely with parliament in this direction, in the context of the ongoing revision of the european consensus on development. our shared ambition is to make policy coherence for development a standard element in policymaking across sectors. in key thematic areas, such as trade, immigration or climate action, we simply cannot afford to do business as usual. we need smart policies geared towards positive development impacts.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of commissioner arias cañete, let me first thank honourable members for their questions on the commission’s action on nuclear installations in belarus. allow me to update you on how we are working towards ensuring the facility will be operated only with the highest level of safety standards. nuclear safety remains a key priority for the commission as confirmed by the energy union framework strategy. while fostering cooperation, transparency and trust, we are using all the instruments at our disposal to ensure the highest possible safety standards in the eu and internationally. this is absolutely non-negotiable. on eu-belarus nuclear safety cooperation: that is exactly the approach we have always taken with belarus – nuclear safety and radiological protection have always been the key focus of our exchanges. since 2011, the european union has been providing the belarusian nuclear regulatory authority with technical assistance under the eu’s instrument for nuclear safety cooperation by transferring eu best practices on the regulatory process, including formulation of licensing conditions and inspection practices, from site selection to commissioning and operation. since april 2015, one eu expert has been based in minsk, where we have been strengthening the regulator during the construction of the nuclear plant project from an early stage. the ultimate aim is to share eu expertise and build national capacity to ensure compliance with the best international practices and standards. through this technical assistance the competent regulatory authority of belarus has improved its human and technical capacity. however, the commission considers that the independence of the belarusian regulator has to be further strengthened and a close monitoring of development is therefore needed. on nuclear safety stress tests: as i said before, openness and transparency is essential when it comes to nuclear safety. by working together with our neighbours in an open way we can benefit from the exchange of information and expertise while building trust. in that spirit, the commission welcomes belarus’s extensive use of iaea expert peer review services to help ensure safety. before i address where we are with the ostrovets nuclear safety stress test, i would like to clarify two things which are essential in understanding the overall process. firstly, nuclear safety stress tests, both in the eu and in third countries, are carried out on a voluntary basis. legally speaking, the european union cannot oblige any member state, nor third countries, which choose nuclear energy, to undertake such stress tests. nevertheless, there is a political commitment to perform stress tests within the eu and an encouragement to extend them outside, as the march 2011 european council called not only for comprehensive and transparent risk and safety assessments of all eu nuclear power plants, but also for carrying out similar stress tests in the neighbouring countries and worldwide. since then, the commission has been promoting the undertaking of stress tests in neighbouring countries. it is encouraging that ukraine has already voluntarily participated in such an exercise and armenia is currently in the process of doing so, supported financially by the european union. secondly, a stress test is a national competence. it is performed by the operator and supervised by the national nuclear regulatory authority. it is only after the national stress test assessment is finalised and the outcome of the assessment is reported on, that the commission can and in fact does organise peer reviews by eu national nuclear safety authorities. in june 2011, based on a commission initiative, several neighbouring countries, including belarus, confirmed their willingness to undertake nuclear stress tests by signing the declaration on conducting nuclear safety stress tests. since then, we have been urging belarus to perform a nuclear safety stress test. the commission expects, in the light of the council conclusions in february 2016, that eu-belarus cooperation will evolve positively also in this regard. what are the next steps? the commission was informed by belarus that it has now put in place a legal instrument regulating the implementation of nuclear safety stress tests in line with european specifications. belarus has also indicated that upon conclusion of the ostrovets stress test process, the national assessment report will be presented to the commission in the course of 2016 and 2017. on our side, the necessary preparations for the peer review have already been done, and it is now in the work programme of the european nuclear safety regulators group. together with the commission, this group of experts will organise the peer review as soon as we receive the national assessment report. while this is already a positive development, the commission would like to speed up the process’s implementation in belarus and to receive the stress test report as soon as possible. therefore, our services are planning a technical mission to belarus in the coming months to discuss progress. to conclude, let me assure you that the commission remains fully committed to raising nuclear safety with the belarusian authorities at all political levels. we will continue to promote the highest level of standards on nuclear safety in belarus, together with all of our international partners. let me also assure you that we are in close contact with the neighbouring member states, in particular lithuania, to follow the developments with the ostrovets nuclear power plant. i will ensure that the european parliament is kept fully up to date with all the developments as and when they happen.
for the alde group lukashenko publicly stated four years ago that the astravyuk nuclear power plant, quotation beginning should be the cheapest of all those built by the russians and others in the world, quotation end. it scares me to hear that. and i don't think you're going to be comfortable either. that would be funny to hear if it wasn't so sad. the construction of the power plant in astrakhan is being carried out arbitrarily and at the expense of safety, in violation of the international conventions of espoo and orhuso, without any mandatory stress tests and, worst of all, with theft, as was common in soviet construction. there is illegal and unsafe construction right next to the european union's border and 50 kilometres from vilnius, and we are hearing today the commission's explanations, which, i am sorry, commissioner, were and are inadequate. the decision to build the astravyansk power plant is a political decision of moscow. it's a decision to maintain energy influence in the region. let's wake up before it's too late. compromise on nuclear safety is a direct path to disaster. we're dealing with a dictator, lukashenko, who's building his own nuclear state. if he didn't learn the lessons of chernobyl, gentlemen, did we learn them ourselves? i want to remind everyone that nuclear disaster knows no borders. the decision is only one: unsafe nuclear construction must be stopped, the astravyansk nuclear plant must be considered, and there must be a constant critical dialogue that allows the european commission to thoroughly inspect and supervise these projects. the european union needs a firm response to both minsk and moscow. the european union must use all its negotiating power. i see no reason why the european union should not apply the experience of the nuclear negotiations with iran, including the united nations security council, to belarus.
for the verts/ale group thank you for agreeing to take part in this debate, which i believe is important for the whole of europe. i am disappointed that commissioner cañete has not been able to answer an important question within his competence, concerning the threat posed by the construction of nuclear facilities right on the border of the european union. i am even more disappointed by the commission's lax approach to the huge problem of the astravyansk power plant being built in violation of international environmental and nuclear safety standards. the signals sent by the commission are formal and even misleading. i am referring in particular to commissioner cañete's earlier reply to me that stress tests were carried out at the belarusian nuclear power plant before they had even started. the recent statement by health commissioner andriukaitis that belarus is complying with all the necessary international conventions is also misleading. in the meantime, the aarhus and espo convention organisations found belarus in violation of these conventions as far back as 2014. belarus ignores such conclusions, but why does the commission, which is a member of these conventions, turn a blind eye to this? understand our concern an authoritarian state on the border of lithuania and the european union is building a nuclear power plant at a very fast pace by a russian company, and all this is done without respecting international standards. the funny thing is, we know the culture of work and the attitude towards transparency. for example, in april, a serious construction incident caused the collapse of a part of the structure but minsk tried to cover it up. the very choice of the site without inviting an iaea site assessment mission demonstrates the attitude of belarus. the list of violations and ambiguities is long. belarus does not answer questions about the impact on the main rivers of lithuania, about the resistance in case of a plane crash, does not develop emergency preparedness plans, does not take care of the management of nuclear fuel waste, ignores seismological studies, and so on. in addition, in your report the commission has just acknowledged that the nuclear safety regulator in belarus is not independent. this means that nuclear safety is not a matter for experts but for the authorities of a non-democratic state. i therefore urge the commission to present to the european parliament as soon as possible a very specific threat plan to compel belarus to comply with international safety and transparency standards. the plan should also send a clear message to minsk that the generation of electricity at the expense of safety measures in the power plant is contrary to the principles of fair trade and is not desirable on the european union market. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. the situation is very complicated, because the site was first selected and then, now, it is considered to invite specialists to investigate whether the site is suitable. it's a political decision. and there are many, many solutions. and the fact that belarus promises to do 'stress tests' but doesn't do them, and the commission is also being taken for a ride because the commissioner said that belarus has already done 'stress tests'. in fact, as a member of the conventions, i think that the commission has to raise the issue and that safety requirements must be ensured, not that we will talk afterwards when there is a problem and we do not know what to do.
in writing. the astravyansk nuclear power plant being built in lithuania's neighbourhood is not a security issue for lithuania or the baltic region, but for the whole of the european union. however, it seems that the eu institutions have not paid sufficient attention to this issue. belarus has not yet implemented its international commitments in the fields of environmental protection and nuclear safety in the development of the astaravo project. however, despite the violations of international requirements, the work on the astravy npp project continues, stress tests are not carried out and we still have no information on the safety of this project. although the commission claims that it cannot force either member states or third countries to carry out 'stress tests', the european council of february 2016 stressed the importance of political cooperation with belarus in order to ensure adequate nuclear safety. it is vital that the issue of astravyansk remains on the political agenda of the commission and the council of europe to ensure that the nuclear power plant being built just 42 km from the eu's external border does not pose a threat to the security of all of us.
in writing. the issue of nuclear safety and environmental protection at the astarava nuclear power plant should be of concern not only to lithuania but also to europe as a whole. the fact that the astravyansk nuclear power plant is being built in violation of the espo and orhus conventions of the united nations. belarus has also failed to comply with its commitment to conduct nuclear safety testing under stressed conditions in accordance with the eu methodology. the site selection for the power plant was clearly not followed, the seismic and geological surveys were not properly carried out, and incidents at the power plant construction site are being covered up. the eu must pay greater attention to the construction of nuclear power plants by third countries, and the active dissemination of environmental and nuclear safety standards must become an essential part of the eu's external energy policy. we often hear that the commission has no leverage to stop the construction of the astravyanskaya power plant. we cannot ban, but we must put pressure on belarus to act transparently and to respect its commitments. there are a number of instruments available to this end: the eu's nuclear safety cooperation instrument, which funds the strengthening of the nuclear safety regulator in belarus. almost €5 million from the eu budget has been earmarked for this. aid should not be unconditional. this requires that stress tests are carried out in accordance with eu standards and in a timely manner. the same conditions should be imposed by the commission for the resumption of the eu-belarus energy dialogue. the issue of nuclear safety in astana should be included in the bemep agenda, and a jointly developed regional position would be of particular importance for lithuania in its interaction with the belarusian representatives.
in writing. – unfair trading practices (utps) can affect small food producers and retailers in business relationships where one party is in a stronger position than the other. utps are often regarded as practices that deviate from good commercial conduct or are contrary to good faith and fair dealing imposed from one trading partner to another. these practices can have a negative effect on the eu economy as a whole, resulting in smes losing their ability to invest and innovate and a failure to seek expansion in the single market. the issue has come to our attention in recent years with many member states installing self-regulatory frameworks and providing examples of best practices. however, the problem of utps is growing and becoming more widespread, and voluntary procedures will not be enough to solve the issue. consistent action from the eu is needed to eliminate utps in the food supply chain and to protect small producers. this can be done through defining what utps consist of and the penalty for their use, as well as encouraging member states to exchange best practices. the problem of unfair trading internally in the eu must be dealt with to protect fair competition and prevent worsening effects on the eu economy.
in writing. i strongly support this future council directive and the improvements that parliament has made to it. this directive lays down rules to combat tax avoidance practices. one study estimated that the global economy loses $100 billion to $240 billion annually because of aggressive tax optimization by multinational corporations. this amount represents 4/10% of the worldwide income tax revenue. such huge revenue losses are particularly damaging to countries, as they reduce their ability to invest in promoting employment, fighting poverty and developing effective universal health care systems. the further development of economic and monetary union requires the harmonisation of tax systems in the european union, inter alia, to limit tax avoidance by multinational companies. a fair and efficient corporate tax system must become a cornerstone of the single market. because if the member states agree on taxation issues, we will have an efficient and reliable single market. we need to take a balanced approach to the implementation of tax systems. i also support the main objective of parliament's proposals - that companies pay taxes where they make their profits - and i therefore urge the commission to amend its proposal accordingly.
in writing. mr president, the report on combating tax avoidance raises a number of important issues to which i would like to draw attention. the union's policy priorities in relation to international taxation should focus on a framework that ensures that tax is paid where profits are generated, i.e. where residence or business is located. this approach will make it possible to protect national tax systems more effectively. this is all the more important given that, according to oecd research and data, unfair and aggressive tax planning by multinational companies contributes to a loss of between usd 100 and 240 billion from national budgets each year. such actions lead directly to a loss of revenue for the states, reduce employment in the states and lead to problems in the pension systems. for this reason, the emphasis in the communication on the fight against tax fraud is a step in the right direction, condemning the threat to the cohesion of the internal market. in addition, we should follow the rules of social justice when it comes to legal developments in this area. therefore, the transfer of profits to tax havens and the avoidance of taxation in the country of origin of profits should be opposed, and taxation by multinational companies in particular should be fair. however, the introduction of a single european taxpayer identification number should not be necessary as it has little to do with the fight against financial fraud and would only unnecessarily restrict the sovereignty of the member states in this area.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health and huge losses of revenue to the eu in unpaid taxes. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) was adopted by the fctc in 2012 and constitutes the only multilateral regulatory initiative in combatting illicit tobacco trading and needs to be ratified by 40 parties for it to enter into force. the protocol contains a set of rules and policies in the field of fighting illicit trade in tobacco and aims to make the supply chain, products, and equipment of tobacco secure in the global system. the ratification of the fctc protocol will benefit public health and improve the fight against the illegal trade of tobacco products. i voted in favour of the resolution to give the european parliament’s consent to the conclusion of the protocol and forward its position to the council, commission, and member states to ensure the quick ratification so the protocol can enter into force and implementation.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health agreement. it was developed in response to the global tobacco epidemic and aims to address certain causes of this phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field and requires ratification by the european union in order to enter into force. illicit trade in tobacco products and smuggling of cigarettes are criminal activities that pose a serious threat to public health. in addition, the eu suffers huge revenue losses due to unpaid taxes and duties. the proposed protocol aims to ensure the security of the supply chain for tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by establishing a global monitoring and tracking system. i agree that ratification of the protocol to the cwc will benefit public health and help in the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products. the who framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health agreement. it was developed in response to the global tobacco epidemic and aims to address certain causes of this phenomenon, including illicit trade in tobacco products. the convention entered into force in 2005 and currently has 180 parties. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products was adopted by the conference of the parties in seoul in 2012. this protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this area. the eu signed the iccpr protocol in 2013. the protocol requires the ratification of 40 countries for its entry into force and the immediate ratification by the european union (and its member states) would make a significant contribution to the speedy entry into force and implementation of the iccpr protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling is a criminal activity posing a serious threat to public health because it undermines tobacco control policies and increases access to often cheaper tobacco products. in addition it causes huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties.
in writing. ‒ the the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or activity prohibited by law in connection with the manufacture, transport, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. to address this problem, the protocol applies to the tobacco supply chain, using a variety of governmental instruments. it requires the establishment of a universal marking and tracing system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. the aim is also to establish a global information-sharing contact point within the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. it will lead the development of national and regional labelling and tracing systems. the protocol also contains additional provisions to combat the illicit supply chain of tobacco products. they cover licensing, record keeping requirements, as well as online sales, duty-free trade and international transit regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i agree to this protocol. the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products must be strengthened. the adoption of uniform rules at global level is essential to reduce tobacco-related deaths. it should be noted that tobacco use is a global problem, not only health, legal but also economic. in this context, it is necessary to ensure the security of the supply chain for tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by establishing a global monitoring and tracking system. almost a third of all cigarettes exported worldwide are illegal, and the illicit trade in tobacco products is hampering the smooth development of a no-smoking policy. it is therefore necessary to promote international cooperation, including mutual administrative assistance in customs matters.
in writing. ‒ the document under consideration is an important step in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products. the document is well drafted and i am convinced that it should be adopted without any further debate or amendments. the reduction of illicit trade in tobacco, which is the aim of this document, will help to achieve at least three objectives: on the one hand, it will ensure tax revenues for the member states; on the other hand, it will reduce the possibility of criminal activity; and, thirdly, it will allow the quality of tobacco products entering the eu market to be controlled, at least contributing to reducing the harm to health of those who cannot give up smoking.
in writing. ‒ i agree that it is essential to remove unnecessary regulatory barriers to trade and cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive europe. the automotive industry and its associated auxiliary industries are a major sector of the european union's economy. the automotive sector creates 12 million jobs and 4% of eu gdp. international regulatory cooperation can foster the development of a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, while improving and ensuring the highest level of health and safety protection.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or used on wheeled vehicles. with the increasing interconnection of global markets, it is essential to remove unnecessary regulatory barriers to trade and cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diverse european industrial base. the automotive industry and its associated auxiliary industries are a major sector of the european union's economy. the automotive sector creates 12 million jobs and 4% of eu gdp. it is important for the upstream and downstream industries. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the largest private investor in research and technological development in this sector. to secure the vital position of the automotive industry, the eu needs to increase the competitiveness of the eu automotive industry and maintain its position as a world technology leader. international regulatory cooperation can foster the development of a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, while improving and ensuring the highest level of health and safety protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the eu must provide support to global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements like the unece framework help reduce development costs, reduce costs of production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement of the un economic commission for europe on uniform technical standards for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts. the aim of this agreement is to remove unnecessary trade and regulatory barriers and to maintain and strengthen a competitive european industry.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the recommendation. in particular, effective, cost-effective and more harmonised rules should apply. particular attention shall be paid to the harmonisation and application of the common technical requirements. it is essential to promote more effective regulatory cooperation and to increase productivity and competitiveness. it is noted that production deficiencies can have serious consequences and increase existing costs. in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diverse european industrial base, unnecessary regulatory barriers to trade and cooperation need to be removed. the development of a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment must also be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ europeans live, work and do business in the single market. it is therefore strange that in some areas the conditions of competition are still different. today we are correcting one of those inequalities by different technical standards for vehicles. i am convinced that this will only make the single market work better and make life easier for eu citizens. i hope that the time will soon come when we will correct the shortcomings in market regulation in other areas where the eu single market is even more distorted. i am referring in particular to painful areas such as direct payments to farmers.
in writing. ‒ trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, signed on 26 june 2012. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. i therefore support the legal action to be taken by the commission and the council to enable croatia to participate in the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels in 2012 and, pursuant to article 330 of the agreement, certain provisions thereof apply to the european union and peru and colombia from 2013. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the rapporteur is of the opinion that the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ in view of croatia's accession to the european union, there is an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the rapporteur is of the opinion that the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. croatia's accession to the eu has slightly altered our trade agreements with peru and colombia. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also satisfied with the proposal, so i am voting in favour without reservation.
in writing. ‒ the the decision to benefit from enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, law and recognition and enforcement of judgments applicable to the property regime of international couples was taken following the failure of all member states to negotiate on the initial proposals submitted by the commission in 2011. therefore, in early 2016, the commission submitted new legislative proposals under the enhanced cooperation procedure, based on the compromise text previously agreed. enhanced cooperation must fulfil several conditions: it must be a last resort where the objectives of such cooperation cannot be attained by the union as a whole within a reasonable period of time, if at least nine member states are involved; it must be compatible with the treaties and union law and respect the competences, rights and obligations of the member states not participating in it; it must contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives, protect its interests and strengthen the integration process. it must not undermine the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion, or constitute an obstacle to trade between member states, or discriminate against or distort competition between them. i support this recommendation, which proposes that parliament should give its support to closer cooperation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the council decision authorising closer cooperation on jurisdiction, law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments applicable to the property regime of international couples (the matrimonial property regime and the property consequences of registered partnerships). the decision to benefit from enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments applicable to the property regime of international couples (marital property regime and the property consequences of registered partnerships) was taken following negotiations by all member states on the initial proposals submitted by the commission in 2011. in the field of family law, legislative acts are adopted unanimously by the council after consulting parliament. in 2013, parliament endorsed the 2011 draft acts, but by the end of 2015 it became clear that member states could not agree on the proposals. therefore, closer cooperation seemed the best solution if 23 member states agreed in principle to the adoption of these two acts. therefore, in early 2016, the commission submitted new legislative proposals under the enhanced cooperation procedure, based on the compromise text previously agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the decision to have recourse to enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the matter of property regimes of international couples, covering both matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, has been taken since negotiations between all member states, on the commission’s initial proposals of 2011, reached stalemate.
in writing. ‒ i support closer cooperation on the legal regime of property of international couples, applicable jurisdiction, law and recognition and enforcement of judgments. in the field of family law, legislative acts are adopted unanimously by the council after consulting parliament. the parliament's decision is therefore more procedural.
in writing. ‒ families, or in broader terms couples who come from or live in different countries an increasingly commonplace phenomenon in the increasingly globalised everyday life of our times. it is therefore necessary to ensure concrete, clear and transparent regulation of civil relationships between such couples, cooperation between states, protection of property interests, as well as standards and international mechanisms for the protection of children's rights. i welcome this initiative, i urge my colleague to vote in favour and i urge the commission and the member states to continue the dialogue with stakeholders on improving regulation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the i agree that the european union should ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. it requires the establishment of a universal marking and tracing system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. the aim is also to establish a global information-sharing contact point within the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. it will lead the development of national and regional labelling and tracing systems. the protocol also contains additional provisions to combat the illicit supply chain of tobacco products. they cover licensing, record keeping requirements and online sales, exempt trade and regulation of international transit.
in writing. - on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the framework convention on tobacco control of the organisation for economic cooperation and development, as regards its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. the european union should ratify the world health organisation protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products without delay. the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or activity prohibited by law in connection with the manufacture, transport, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. to address this problem, the protocol applies to the tobacco supply chain, using a variety of governmental instruments. it requires the establishment of a universal marking and tracing system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. the aim is also to establish a global information-sharing contact point within the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. it will lead the development of national and regional labelling and tracing systems. the protocol also contains additional provisions to combat the illicit supply chain of tobacco products. they cover licensing, record keeping requirements, as well as online sales, duty-free trade and international transit regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the protocol’s main objective is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. also it introduces the principle of due diligence which sets up an effective licensing system with a view to controlling the supply chain as well as including provisions on a tracking and tracing regime and on the prevention of money laundering.
in writing. ‒ the the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol defines illicit trade in tobacco products as any practice or activity prohibited by law in connection with the manufacture, transport, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. to address this problem, the protocol applies to the tobacco supply chain, using a variety of governmental instruments. it requires the establishment of a universal marking and tracing system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol. the aim is also to establish a global information-sharing contact point within the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control. it will lead the development of national and regional labelling and tracing systems. the protocol also contains additional provisions to combat the illicit supply chain of tobacco products. they cover licensing, record keeping requirements, as well as online sales, duty-free trade and international transit regulation.
in writing. ‒ the the document in question is an important step in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products. the document is well drafted and i am convinced that it should be adopted without any further debate or amendments. the reduction of illicit tobacco trade, which is the aim of this document, will help to achieve at least three objectives: on the one hand, it will ensure tax revenues for the member states; on the other hand, it will reduce the potential for criminal activity; and, on the third, it will allow the quality of tobacco products entering the eu market to be controlled, at least in so far as it contributes to reducing the harm to health of those who cannot give up smoking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which proposes, in exceptional circumstances and in order to allow the national competent authorities and stakeholders to complete the practical implementation, to postpone the date of entry into force of the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec by 12 months, to 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the future directive amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments, which is delayed by six months for objective reasons in order to allow the necessary it platforms to be developed and implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the directive’s aim is to improve the competitiveness of eu financial markets by creating a single market for investment services and activities, and ensuring a high degree of harmonised protection for investors in financial instruments, such as shares, bonds, derivatives and various structured products.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to delay the entry into force of directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments by six months in order to allow the necessary it platforms to be developed and implemented.
in writing. ‒ the the document under consideration is one of the most important issues of this session. the recent financial crisis and the various speculative activities that have been attributed to it have long called for the introduction of appropriate regulation of the financial transactions sector. the proposed amendments set out requirements for trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with the basic data on the transactions entered into. those data are also used for other purposes, such as to calculate transparency and liquidity thresholds and to report on commodity derivative positions, and will hopefully contribute to ensuring the stability of markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which proposes, in exceptional circumstances and in order to allow the national competent authorities and stakeholders to complete the practical implementation, to postpone the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 by 12 months to 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it sets out parliament's position on the future regulation amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the european union and central securities depositories. it is postponed by six months as the member states have not developed and deployed the necessary it platforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it harmonises the position limits regime for commodity derivatives to improve transparency, to support orderly pricing and to prevent market abuse. it also introduces rules on high-frequency algorithmic trading and improves the oversight of financial markets by harmonising administrative sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to delay by six months the entry into force of the regulation on improving securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories, given that the member states have not been able to develop and implement the necessary it platforms.
in writing. ‒ the the document under consideration is one of the most important issues of this session. the recent financial crisis and the various speculative activities that have been attributed to it have long called for the introduction of appropriate regulation of the financial transactions sector. the proposed amendments set out requirements for trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with the basic data on the transactions entered into. those data are also used for other purposes, such as to calculate transparency and liquidity thresholds and to report on commodity derivative positions, and will hopefully contribute to the reduction of abuses that should be a condition for ensuring market stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, in which the ep expresses its favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr rimant šadić as a member of the court of auditors. in view of the hearing held on 23 may by the committee on budgetary control and the strong support expressed for his candidacy, i approve his appointment as an ad. since 2003, mr sadzis' professional activity has always been closely linked to public finance. the candidate is a former deputy minister of social security and labour, minister of health and minister of finance of the republic of lithuania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr rimant šadić as a member of the court of auditors. following a hearing of the candidate proposed by the council for appointment as a member of the court of auditors at the meeting of the parliament's committee on budgetary control on 23 may 2016, the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the nomination of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i support the council's proposal to appoint mr rimant šadži as a member of the court of auditors, as he has the qualifications, experience and capacity for this job.
in writing. ‒ i would like to invite my colleague to support the nomination of a member of the court of auditors. rimantas šadžius is known as a financial specialist who uses evolutionary rather than revolutionary tools, who is able to bring together experts to choose the right solutions for public finance management. i think that for the court of auditors, a conservative body which checks the appropriateness of the use of eu funds, such a specialist is a good fit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which sets out the ep's position on the commission's biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd). i agree that, given that the refugee crisis and the unstable situation in the eu's neighbourhood are calling into question the principles on which the eu itself is based, the focus should be on external action to achieve the sdg. stabilising the eu's neighbourhood should be a clear priority for the eu. in the field of eu external action, considerable progress has been made in the area of csdp with regard to the joint role of the high representative and the vice-president. the eu's comprehensive approach is becoming a reality, although it still faces serious challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it sets out parliament's position on the commission's biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd). 15 billion people in the world still live in poverty and deprivation, without access to health and education services and to a secure standard of living, and the majority of them are women. in the absence of a comprehensive approach to the taxation of income, the commission considers that the taxation of income is not a matter of taxation but of taxation. in its report, parliament regretted that, although policy coherence for development was endorsed in the un millennium declaration, the lisbon treaty and the busan forum on aid effectiveness, little progress had been made in ensuring it in practice. parliament therefore calls for an eu-wide debate on policy coherence for development in the context of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 new global and indivisible sustainable development goals, in order to better understand how this concept can be reconciled with a more comprehensive approach to policy coherence for sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i welcome pcd e—training for the delegations as a positive development. to involve the eu delegations more, not only in reporting but also in implementation, the issue should be on the agenda of the yearly meeting of eu heads of delegations in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the provisions of the ep's communication on eu policy coherence for development in 2015, in which the european parliament assesses the report presented by the european commission. the report is produced by the commission every two years and covers the different policy areas - trade, migration, health, climate change - and their impact on the development of third countries.
in writing. ‒ this report is a large and valuable document illustrating the eu's role in the world. the commission and other institutions are doing a lot to reduce poverty in the world, while also ensuring our security. more importantly, the coordination of the efforts of the different eu institutions is needed. unfortunately, peace efforts do not always succeed, as illustrated by the long-running crisis in syria or the renewed problems in some african countries. after reading the report, i can only recommend that development professionals work more closely with conflict management professionals to turn the tide of conflict towards peaceful, development-oriented development. although i missed something in the report on the latter aspect, it is the only major shortcoming that does not prevent me from voting against.
in writing. ‒ the g8, now g7, created the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) in 2012 to leverage investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in africa. nafsn aims to replicate the 1960s ‘green revolution’ in asia that was successful through biotechnology, monoculture, and distribution networks among other tools. the policies and reforms in these african countries are meant to create business-friendly environments through changes in tax, trade, and infrastructure policies. nafsn has a long way to go and must be reformed in order for it to become a successful tool in the fight against poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu and member states have a key role to play in investing in a model of agriculture that is sustainable, equal, and unlocks the potential of regional markets to benefit family farmers in africa. the support of nasfn must be conditional on the improvements set out in the resolution and the eu and member states must ensure effective programmes that are pro-smallholder farming, pro-women, and of benefit to providing safe and secure quality food at accessible prices.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition was established in 2012 as a major public-private partnership (ppp) to leverage private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. each participating african country has adopted a country cooperation programme setting out the commitments of each contracting party to the alliance. these commitments relate to legislative reforms in the african countries concerned, the financing intentions of g7 donors and the commitment of the 180 participating companies to invest a total of usd 8 billion. i agree that the eu and the member states have an important role to play in making the new alliance for food security and nutrition a real tool to support family farms and local economies in sub-saharan africa and to fight poverty, food insecurity and food insecurity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's view on the new alliance for food security and food security. the alliance was established in 2012 as a major public-private partnership (ppp) to leverage private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. specific g7 partners are assigned the responsibility of coordinating the implementation of the initiative in a specific african country. the eu is responsible for coordination in côte d'ivoire and malawi. the parliament's report recognises the need for african countries to invest in agriculture and the rationale of the alliance for a new food security and nutrition security, but there are many shortcomings. in its report, parliament criticises the fact that smallholders were hardly consulted when developing cooperation programmes between countries, even though they should be the ultimate beneficiaries of the new food security alliance. the new alliance for food security and nutrition has also been heavily criticised by civil society and public figures. they warn that the new alliance risks facilitating land grabbing, further marginalizing smallholders and women, while supporting unruly farming. parliament considered that the eu and the member states should play an important role in making the new alliance for food security and food security a real tool for supporting family farms and local economies in sub-saharan africa and combating poverty, food insecurity and food insecurity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. agricultural investment policies should be linked to, and should support, the development of the local economy, including smallholders and family farming.
in writing. ‒ the alliance for food security and nutrition in africa aims to improve food security in sub-saharan africa by 2020 and help people to get out of poverty. specific g7 partners are assigned the responsibility of coordinating the implementation of the initiative in a specific african country. the eu is responsible for coordination in côte d'ivoire and malawi. each of the eight african countries participating in this programme has adopted a cooperation programme setting out the commitments of each contracting party to the alliance. these commitments relate to legislative reforms in the african countries concerned, the financing intentions of g7 donors and the commitment of the 180 participating companies to invest a total of usd 8 billion. the european parliament's report on the operation of this food alliance raises various concerns about the disproportionate power of foreign corporations in african countries, land rights abuses and the lack of access to small, individual african farms, which continue to be impoverished.
in writing. ‒ food safety and food quality are key issues of the day. the current technological developments are beginning to threaten the quality of food, as it is possible to replace virtually all natural ingredients with artificial ones. and that's why we have overproduction of food and an endless crisis and a lot of sick people. my colleague mary has produced an excellent report on this subject, which i urge everyone to support.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias). the international accounting standards board (iasb), based in london, produces a set of high-quality accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, thus creating a common language for global financial reporting. since 2005, listed eu companies have been required to comply with these standards when preparing their consolidated financial statements. the adoption of international accounting standards into eu law is subject to the approval mechanism set out in the ias regulation. international accounting standards are an important part of the eu's regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. they relate to a number of other eu financial services regulatory acts, including in the field of prudential regulation. however, the financial crisis has shown that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report by parliament on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob). the international accounting standards board (iasb), based in london, produces a set of high-quality accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, thus creating a common language for global financial reporting. since 2005, listed eu companies have been required to comply with these standards when preparing their consolidated financial statements. the adoption of international accounting standards into eu law is subject to the approval mechanism set out in the ias regulation. international accounting standards are an important part of the eu's regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. they relate to a number of other eu financial services regulatory acts, including in the field of prudential regulation. however, the financial crisis has shown that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved. in particular, there is ongoing debate on the impact of the use of 'true value' on financial stability. evaluation of the ifrs regulation also provides an opportunity to address issues related to the ifrs approval process in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. international accounting standards form an important part of the eu financial services regulation and supervisory framework. the application of the international financial reporting standards in the eu has contributed to a strengthening of the single market and also strengthened the competitiveness of the european economy by allowing companies to attract capital and investments on global capital markets.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the ep's position on the assessment of international accounting standards (ias). international accounting standards are an important part of the eu's regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. they relate to a number of other eu financial services regulatory acts. however, the financial crisis has shown that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved.
in writing. ‒ this report on the assessment of international accounting standards and the activities of the international financial reporting standards fund, the european financial reporting advisory group and the public interest oversight board appears to be largely observational in nature. we all agree that the harmonization of standards worldwide is an important task. statistics show that they are broadly harmonised, although there are important exceptions. the report seems to discuss the guidelines for further work on harmonising standards, but i regret to say that i am not aware of the commission's specific ambitions in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because of the strategic importance of coordinated external actions to safekeeping and peace within africa. early communication and enhanced procedures between the eu, united nations, african union as well as other organisations like nato are necessary for peace and security. european military cooperation increases the efficiency and effectiveness of europe’s contribution to un peacekeeping. clarifying eu engagement boundaries on peace support operations (psos) is important for recognizing the primary objective of eu development policy is the reduction and eradication of poverty. the eeas needs to develop a much more efficient and strategic approach to the un and its agencies, specifically with regard to external financial instruments. peace and security are necessary preconditions for development, and fighting the root causes of conflicts paves the way for long-term development. the rise of terrorism in africa has stressed the importance for effective anti-terrorism policies in developing countries. the importance of political, humanitarian, and development efforts supported by civilian peacekeeping operations cannot be understated in the peace—building process.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which advocates peace support operations and eu action in conjunction with the un and the african union. the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the longer term; whereas good governance, justice, greater respect for the rule of law, protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security are essential prerequisites for this, and successful reconciliation, reconstruction and economic development programmes will help to ensure sustainable peace and prosperity. i support calls for the eu to seek to allocate its activities appropriately and to focus on those areas where it can deliver the most benefits. a number of member states are already involved in operations in africa and the eu could create real added value by increasing its support for these operations. i welcome the un-eu strategic partnership on peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for 2015-2018.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the report in which parliament has spoken on peace support operations and on the eu's relations with the united nations and the african union. peacekeeping operations are a crisis response with a un mandate, usually in support of internationally recognised organisations, and aim to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or strengthen peace, ensure the implementation of peace treaties and respond to complex emergencies and challenges posed by failing or weak states. stability in the neighbouring countries of africa and europe would have a very positive impact on all our countries. however, africa is increasingly fragile states and unmanaged areas, and many people are affected by poverty, lawlessness, corruption and violence, while permeable borders on the continent create favourable conditions for violence, reduced security and opportunities for criminal activity. in its report, parliament stresses the need to coordinate external action, using diplomatic, security and development tools, to restore confidence and address the challenges of war, internal conflicts, insecurity, vulnerability and transition. it also considers that the deployment of several un mandated missions, involving different actors and regional organisations in the same area of operations, is becoming an increasingly common phenomenon in the field of modern peacekeeping operations. considers it therefore essential to manage these complex partnerships without duplication of activities or missions in order to successfully conduct operations, and therefore calls for the evaluation and rationalisation of existing structures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the deployment of multiple un-authorised missions in the same theatre of operations, with different actors and regional organisations, is increasingly the reality of modern peace operations. that is why managing these complex partnerships, while not duplicating work or missions, is essential to successful operations.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on peace support operations, eu relations with the un and the african union, as these operations aim to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or strengthen peace, and respond to complex emergencies. stability in the african and european neighbourhood would benefit all countries. i believe that the technical and financial support provided by the eu to the african union countries is of particular importance in order to enable them to better prevent crises, the strengthening of terrorist organisations and the growth of uncontrolled territories.
in writing. ‒ this report is a large and valuable document illustrating the eu's role in the world. the commission and other institutions are doing a lot to reduce poverty in the world, while also ensuring our security. more importantly, coordination between the different eu institutions is needed, especially with important structures such as the african union. as our recent document has shown, peace efforts are not always successful. this is particularly true in africa. i see a lot of room for improvement in this area, both for our institutions - the eu's external relations service - and for the african union - by mobilising the efforts of its members, as well as by attracting activists from ngos, by strengthening cooperation between local authorities and by promoting decentralisation of governance. at the same time, i would like to stress that the increase in funding, which is very subtly requested in the report, will not solve the problems by itself. we need to think above all about the quality of governance, the empowerment of citizens, local, tailor-made solutions that are of interest to specific people, communities, regions and the reallocation of available resources to support them.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mr van orden, as the main mechanism for cooperation between the european union and the african union is the maintenance of peace on the african continent through continuous un-sponsored peacekeeping operations. the eu's role in this process is crucial, as many member states are actively involved in peacekeeping missions. it is worth noting that the rapporteur rightly points to the need for a compact and integrated approach to peace in africa, based on support for economic development on the continent. this requires a long-term political perspective that takes account of the causes of conflicts and their solutions without the need for the use of force.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to draw attention to the problem of unfair trading practices and, in recognition of the initiatives already taken at national and eu level, whether national regulatory measures or self-regulatory initiatives, to explore further ways of tackling the problem of unfair trading practices in the internal market. in july 2014, the commission published a communication to encourage member states to look at ways to better protect small food producers and retailers from unfair trading practices, which are common in business relationships where one of the two parties is in a stronger position. unfair trading practices are driven by differences in the economic resources and therefore the bargaining power of trading parties in business relationships, and can have a negative impact on the eu economy as a whole in the food and non-food supply chain, as companies, especially smes, may lose the capacity to invest and innovate and may decide not to expand their businesses in the single market. i agree that decisive and consistent action is needed to completely eliminate unfair trading practices in the food supply chain in the european union. the scale of this problem requires the adoption of rules at union level to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all actors in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it was parliament's response to unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. unfair trading practices are a serious problem in many sectors of the economy. the 2016 commission report on unfair trading practices between companies in the food supply chain confirms that such practices can occur at any stage of the food supply chain and that the problem is particularly evident in the food supply chain and has a negative impact on the weakest link in the chain. the existence of this problem is acknowledged by all actors in the food supply chain and by many national competition authorities. in its report, parliament welcomed the commission's ambitious action to combat unfair trading practices in order to ensure a better market balance and to overcome the current disparities between national legislation and voluntary codes addressing unfair trading practices in the eu, but noted that this was not enough to combat unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is essential to ensure that european competition law takes into account the specific features of agriculture and serves the welfare of producers as well as consumers, who play an important role in the supply chain. however, european competition law must create the conditions for a more efficient market that enables consumers to benefit from a wide range of quality products at competitive prices, while ensuring that primary producers have an incentive to invest and innovate without being forced out of the market by unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ the unfair trading practices are a serious problem in many sectors of the economy. the 2016 commission report on unfair trading practices between companies in the food supply chain confirms that such practices can occur at any stage of the food supply chain and that the problem is particularly evident in the food supply chain and has a negative impact on the weakest link in the chain. the existence of this problem is acknowledged by all actors in the food supply chain and by many national competition authorities. in its report, parliament welcomed the commission's ambitious action to combat unfair trading practices in order to ensure a better market balance and to overcome the current disparities between national legislation and voluntary codes addressing unfair trading practices in the eu, but noted that this was not enough to combat unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ unfair practices in the food supply chain, in particular the unduly low share of value added attributed to primary producers, are one of the root causes of the current crisis. i welcome this report, which incorporates many of the provisions i made in the agri committee. i urge the commission to read our proposals carefully. i urge member states to do the same. we need to take immediate legal measures to help protect farmers and, in the long term, ensure rural viability.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i supported the czesak report because it unequivocally calls on the member states to look for new ways to increase the protection of small food producers and retailers against unfair commercial practices. the rapporteur rightly identifies examples of unfair practices which are grossly contrary to good commercial practice and to the principle of fair trade. it is therefore necessary to put an end to the harmful behaviour on the agricultural market which has a negative impact on the economy of the european union as a whole and in particular on the economies of the smaller member states, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment. this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way. technological innovation is a vital part of the solution. the aim of this communication is to ensure that europe has a dynamic agricultural sector, with a wide range of innovations and technologies developing in all areas of farming. i agree that we need to invest in research. the practical application of research is insufficient and farmers are prevented from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies and innovation. the eu and the member states, academia and industry, including breeders, the agrochemical sector, farmers and food producers, must work together to improve the practical application of research results.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward on the technological solutions needed for sustainable eu agriculture. with the world's growing population, meeting the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment. this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way. technological innovation is a vital part of the solution. agricultural technologies can make a particularly important contribution to making farming more efficient and sustainable. the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability, according to parliament. the aim of this communication is to ensure that europe has a dynamic agricultural sector, with a wide range of innovations and technologies in all farming activities, whether traditional, organic or otherwise. we must ensure that the benefits of technological innovation are available to all eu farmers. in order to address the problems faced by many large farmers, it is also important to find solutions that can be successfully applied on a smaller scale in rural communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this is a very important report at a time of a deep farming crisis with low commodity prices. strengthening innovation is key to improving the situation of farmers, agricultural input industries, traders and food companies alike.
in writing. ‒ the with the world's growing population, meeting the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment. this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way. technological innovation is a vital part of the solution. agricultural technologies can make a particularly important contribution to making farming more efficient and sustainable. the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability, according to parliament. the aim of this communication is to ensure that europe has a dynamic agricultural sector, with a wide range of innovations and technologies in all farming activities, whether traditional, organic or otherwise. we must ensure that the benefits of technological innovation are available to all eu farmers. in order to address the problems faced by many large farmers, it is also important to find solutions that can be successfully applied on a smaller scale in rural communities.
in writing. - i want to draw the attention of my colleagues to this report. although well written, the greater part of it is an attempt to legitimize questionable agricultural practices, such as genetically modified products. anyone who's in favor of healthy eating, anyone who wants to know what they're eating, should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the greatest challenge facing the world in the future is to meet the need for food. this is related to the systematic growth of the population. i voted for the report because it deals first and foremost with the need to produce healthy food. by 2050, the need for healthy food will increase by 70 percent. this can be an opportunity for agriculture in countries like lithuania, which have a great potential for developing organic farming. but let us not forget that this development cannot be based on gmos, i.e. genetically modified food, because this is a threat to the ecosystem and biodiversity. healthy food is gmo-free.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world population will exceed 9 billion. at the same time, dietary priorities are changing rapidly more consumers are demanding animal proteins such as dairy products and meat. at the same time, it is necessary to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production and to mitigate its impact on the environment and arable land. the potential of agricultural innovation is not fully realised and the european regulatory system is not able to keep pace with rapid progress. in order to accelerate and promote agricultural innovation and entrepreneurship in the sector, crucial challenges need to be addressed. i agree that the cap should be more focused on farmers' needs, with sufficient room for innovation and competitiveness. innovation in technology can help to move away from generic measures and towards targeted interventions. better coordination with other industrial sectors, such as chemicals, health and technology, is needed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward on the promotion of innovation and economic development in the future management of european farms. since the beginning of agriculture, farming methods have changed. the introduction of the latest technologies ensures a thriving rural economy and keeps pace with wider economic development. better use of the capacity to innovate ensures that agriculture can contribute to many solutions. by 2050, the world's population will exceed 9 billion. at the same time, dietary priorities are changing rapidly more consumers are demanding animal proteins such as dairy products and meat. this means that we need to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production to mitigate the impact on the environment and the arable land. the potential of agricultural innovation is not fully realised and the european regulatory system is not able to keep pace with rapid progress. in order to accelerate and promote agricultural innovation and entrepreneurship in the sector, crucial challenges need to be addressed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. innovation in technology can help to move away from generic measures and towards targeted interventions. with precision farming and the use of large amounts of data, agriculture will change fundamentally, it will be easier to produce more product kilograms with fewer resources and intervention measures to combat diseases or pests will be more targeted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the common agricultural policy should focus more on farmers’ needs leaving enough flexibility to enhance innovation and competitiveness. innovations in technology can help us move away from generic measures and contribute to targeted interventions. employing precision farming and big data will transform agriculture and contributes to produce more kg of product with less input of resources and more targeted interventions to combat diseases or pests.
in writing. ‒ the the introduction of the latest technologies ensures a thriving rural economy and keeps pace with wider economic development. better use of the capacity to innovate ensures that agriculture can contribute to many solutions. by 2050, the world's population will exceed 9 billion. at the same time, dietary priorities are changing rapidly more consumers are demanding animal proteins such as dairy products and meat. this means that we need to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production to mitigate the impact on the environment and the arable land. the potential of agricultural innovation is not fully realised and the european regulatory system is not able to keep pace with rapid progress. in order to accelerate and promote agricultural innovation and entrepreneurship in the sector, crucial challenges need to be addressed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. innovation in technology can help to move away from generic measures and towards targeted interventions. with precision farming and the use of large amounts of data, agriculture will change fundamentally, it will be easier to produce more product kilograms with fewer resources and intervention measures to combat diseases or pests will be more targeted.
in writing. ‒ european agriculture is in need of help at the moment. we must ensure its viability and help it survive the crisis, but we must also provide a long-term foundation for its growth. without support for innovation, of course, which does not involve genetic modification of plants and animals, we will not do that. i think this report sets out some pretty good guidelines for the future that are worth following.
in writing. ‒ mr president, as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i supported the report on the promotion of innovation and the future management of economic development in the field of european farms. the european agricultural sector is fundamental to the economy of the european union. in addition to providing food, the sector is also a pillar of development, providing jobs for 25 million people directly employed in agriculture. this should also include people from the manufacturing, food industry and trade sectors. the union's agriculture must therefore focus on innovation to ensure the greatest possible autonomy of europe's food supply. the common agricultural policy should therefore pay greater attention to the needs of farmers, in particular as regards aid for the production of different products and services in this sector.
for the efdd group as we know, loyalty is not something that can be bought. even if you do manage to buy something, it is short-lived. is the commission proposing to buy another billion euros from east african countries to stop the flow of migrants from them to europe? is this the same reason why attempts were made to buy turkey with six billion euros and the promise of visa-free travel? oh, holy naivete! if he could, he'd burn jan hus's check on the stake, because the money would be spent and the problem would continue. o times, o customs! cicero would be surprised again today. why don't we start paying peace tax to terrorists, so that there is peace in paris, london, brussels and all the capitals of the european states? in six months or a year, could we really start to seriously consider this proposal? i will repeat what i said at the beginning of this migrant crisis: the key precondition for the european union's bilateral or multilateral agreements with african states must be security and border security in the region. all aid projects to the countries of the region can and must also be linked to the maintenance of peace and security in those countries. another essential and enforceable condition is the strict and professional control of the european union's external borders, particularly its southern borders. and finally, we must abandon the policy of quotas. it was, is and will be a clear incentive to migrate to europe, because it sends the signal that you are welcome here, that you will be taken care of. it's obvious. and don't think that the migrants themselves and their smugglers don't understand that. dear ones, when a major fire is extinguished, and if necessary forests are cleared, roads dug, and sand and earth fences built, nothing can dissuade shopping centers from selling matches or lighters.
commissioner, thank you for the presentation of the new european skills agenda. and indeed, in today's rapidly changing digital labour market, it is no longer enough to acquire skills for life, they need to be constantly updated, constantly improved, because new sectors, new jobs, new ways of working are emerging, to which workers need to be really adapted. unfortunately, here is the situation: in the european union, with the unemployment rate still high, it is sometimes difficult for employers to find workers with the right skills to fill those vacancies, so, commissioner, there is indeed a need to invest more in training and in particular in those incentives to enable workers to learn on the job. and here employers should work particularly closely with education and training institutions to produce the very specialists that the labour market needs. commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the problem of the brain drain in european countries, which means that we are losing good professionals. proposals should be submitted to the commission. and i focus on three categories of people: people with disabilities, older people and women, especially those who are returning from parenting leave. these people particularly need opportunities to acquire new job skills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to set up a committee to investigate the panama papers scandal. the mandate of this committee was already endorsed on 2 june by the conference of presidents, which is composed of the ep and its group chairmen. the committee of inquiry, which will include 65 meps, will have to assess whether eu rules on anti-money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance are being properly implemented. it will have 12 months to submit its final report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the one that parliament has decided to set up to investigate cases of suspected breaches of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. the committee of inquiry will be composed of 65 members of parliament and should take account of any developments in its field of competence during its term of office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. one of the main matters of the committee will be to assess the latest developments in the commission’s external strategy for effective taxation and assess the links between the legal framework of the european union and member states and the tax systems of third countries as well as efforts made to promote, at international level, the transparency of beneficial ownership information.
in writing. ‒ in order to investigate the media coverage of the panama papers scandal, the ep decided to set up a committee of inquiry to assess whether eu rules on anti-money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance are being properly implemented. i'm in favor of that decision.
in writing. ‒ our proposal under consideration to set up a committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in cases of money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance is a major step towards ensuring the effectiveness of eu financial management. it needs unconditional support. it is all the more important and welcome that parliament is also taking on a greater role and responsibility in this area, by exercising its powers extended by the recent constitutional reform.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-palau agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the european community and its member states, known as the cotonou agreement. the proposed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the european community and its member states, known as the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i support the visa-free agreement with the republic of palau. this agreement will facilitate travel for both tourism and business purposes and is therefore likely to promote tourism and facilitate investment, economic development. palau, like the european union, defends the principles and values of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. this country poses no threat to illegal immigration, security or public order.
‒ european integration has ensured the free movement of persons in europe. it is good to see that the commission is also working to ensure the free movement of europeans around the world. the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver is a successful and welcome example of such an activity, which will promote bilateral relations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the european community and its member states, known as the cotonou agreement. the proposed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of tonga for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the european community and its member states, known as the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the kingdom of tonga for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas constitutes simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i support the visa waiver agreement with the kingdom of tonga. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and tongan citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. as of 2014, no asylum seekers from this country had applied for asylum in the eu. it has also historically been the case that the largest migration flows from tonga have been to new zealand, australia and the united states, and very few to the eu. it is unlikely that the country poses any threat to illegal immigration, security or public order.
‒ european integration has ensured the free movement of persons in europe. it is good to see that the commission is also working to ensure the free movement of europeans around the world. the agreement between the european union and the republic of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver is a successful and welcome example of such an activity, which will contribute to the development of bilateral relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement between the eu and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of colombia for visits to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of colombia for visits to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will also help to strengthen regional cohesion, as colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still have to apply for a visa, and will be a rather important factor in bringing the european peoples and colombians closer together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the new visa regime provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens when travelling to the territory of colombia and for citizens of colombia when travelling to the eu, for a period of stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i approve the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of colombia. i welcome the fact that the agreement contains a declaration on cooperation in the area of illegal migration, in which the union and colombia recall their commitment to the readmission of irregular migrants.
‒ european integration has ensured the free movement of persons in europe. it is good to see that the commission is also working to ensure the free movement of europeans around the world. the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver is a successful and welcome example of such an activity, which will promote bilateral relations.
in writing. ‒ the information technology agreement (ita) today counts 82 wto member states as participants. each participant must eliminate and require customs duties at zero for all information technology products (it) covered. the duty free treatment of it products has been crucial in the development and expansion of trade in the it sector. in july of 2015, an agreement was reached to expand the product coverage of the agreement between 27 members. by 2019 almost all of the imports of the relevant it products will be duty free. the expansion of the ita is important for trade, and this is the first major tariff cutting deal since the inception of the wto. i voted for this resolution because of the huge potential to create jobs and increase the gdp of the eu. it is important for the eu to not just give its consent to the agreement, but to ensure that more members join the agreement to create a beneficial situation for all.
in writing. ‒ the first agreement on trade in information technology products (itp) was concluded in 1996. it requires each participant to undertake to eliminate customs duties and apply a zero duty rate to all information technology products covered by this agreement, subject to the principle of most-favoured-nation status. in may 2012, six countries (the eu, the usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) entered into negotiations with a view to extending the list of products covered by this agreement. the products covered by this agreement include next generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical devices including magnetic resonance imaging devices, printed circuit board machinery, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. this agreement will reduce prices for consumers as well as prices for producers who rely on imported components. the extension of the ita is a historic agreement the first significant agreement on tariff reductions since the establishment of the wto, with a high potential for job creation and gdp growth, and i therefore support the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the agreement as an extension of the declaration on trade in information technology products (itp) on behalf of the european union. the its requires each participant to undertake to eliminate customs duties and apply a zero duty rate to all information technology (it) products covered by this agreement, subject to the principle of most-favoured-nation status. the its covers approximately 200 tariff lines, including computers, telephones, as well as raw materials, components and equipment for the production of it goods. the unlimited regime for its participants has played a very important role in the extraordinary growth and expansion of trade in the it sector over almost 20 years of its application. trade in this sector has increased fourfold. however, technological progress has changed the it sector beyond recognition during this period and the scope of the its has remained the same. the products covered by this agreement include next generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical devices including magnetic resonance imaging devices, printed circuit board machinery, telecommunications satellites and touch screens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the agreement will remain up to date and in line with the latest developments in the sector. modern information technology and the so-called industry 4.0 will be important driving forces of future economic growth and demand a comprehensive trade framework.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this deal. the decrease in the duty rates is expected to reduce the prices to consumers as well as the prices to producers which are dependent on imported components. however, competition will increase in some sectors. it is important to ensure that more members join the agreement in order to ensure that it is fully beneficial for the eu.
in writing. ‒ trade in information technology products is probably one of the fastest growing areas of international trade. although the first agreement on trade in information technology products was concluded in 1996, its success is illustrated by the fact that the number of participants has increased from 29 signatories wto countries to the current 82. the its requires each participant to commit to eliminate customs duties and apply a zero duty rate to all it products covered by this agreement, subject to the principle of most-favoured-nation status. the its covers approximately 200 tariff lines, including computers, telephones, as well as raw materials, components and equipment for the production of it goods. the unlimited regime for its participants has played a very important role in the dramatic growth and quadrupling of trade in the it sector over almost 20 years of its application. the eu exports eur 189 billion worth of products falling under the expanded its and this is expected to increase significantly with the reduction of tariffs. this agreement will reduce prices for consumers as well as prices for producers who rely on imported components.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to apply control measures and criminal sanctions for α-pvp, as provided for in their legislation implementing their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the draft council decision on the application of control measures to the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinvalerophenone, α-pvp). council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessment and control provides for a three-step procedure under which control measures may be introduced throughout the union in respect of a new psychoactive substance. the risk of α-pvp was assessed by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and the main conclusions of the risk assessment were as follows: α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant. the substance, which has been detected in all 28 member states, as well as in turkey and norway, is mainly imported into the eu drug market from china and then distributed across europe.
in writing. ‒ the i support the council's decision to apply specific control measures to the psychoactive substance α-pvp. the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has identified α-pvp as a potent psychostimulant. it is found in all 28 member states, as well as in turkey and norway, and is mainly imported from china to the eu drug market and then distributed throughout europe. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute cases of poisoning were reported in the eight member states where α-pvp was detected. as this substance can cause serious harm to human health, i support the decision to introduce control measures and criminal sanctions for the use of this psychoactive substance.
in writing. ‒ the control of new chemicals, especially those that may have an impact on human health, is an important eu task. the centralisation of such decisions facilitates the work of the relevant authorities in the member states. i fully support the draft council decision on the application of control measures to the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinvalerophenone, α-pvp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, which sets out the ep's recommendations on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. i agree with the ep's proposal for a preliminary report to work with the council and the commission to achieve a positive result. the ep would be unable to give its consent until the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of conferring eu competence have been guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains parliament's recommendations for the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the council decision on the ratification and accession to the protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, concluded by the member states in the interests of the european union. this time, instead of endorsing the council's decision, parliament decided to draw up a preliminary report in order to work with the council and the commission to achieve a positive result. parliament considers that it would be inappropriate to give its consent to this agreement until the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the basic principle of conferring of competences on the eu are guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea 1996 is the last one of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions dealing with liability and compensation for damages arising from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) that has not yet been ratified. the rapporteur stresses that the present interim report should not be seen as an impediment to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair fashion, without impairing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparity for the victims of pollution (e.g. coastal communities, fishermen, etc.) and the shipping industry.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because it seeks to ensure that the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances is strictly liable for damage caused by an incident involving the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea on that ship.
in writing. ‒ while the 2010 hns convention solves an important task of ensuring accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund in accordance with the principle of polluter pays, it may nevertheless be contrary to the provisions of the environmental liability directive which provide that this directive does not apply to environmental damage or to the imminent threat of such damage caused by an event for which liability or compensation is governed by the international conventions listed in annex iv, as well as their future amendments, in force in that member state. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose a maximum level of compensation for the damage caused by the ship's failure to comply with the relevant provisions of the directive. the document itself is really well prepared and that's why i support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains parliament's recommendations for the council decision on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, done in the interests of the european union, by member states, as regards aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) and the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have not yet been ratified. this preliminary report of parliament should not be seen as an obstacle to the establishment of a uniform regime of liability, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair way, without compromising the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (e.g. coastal communities, fishermen, etc.) and the shipping industry. parliament wants to open a dialogue with the council and the commission to define a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the hazardous and noxious substances convention with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. in view of the significant share hns cargo represents in maritime freight transport, the global nature of the shipping business, as well as the cross-boundary impact accidents involving hns cargo are likely to have, it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because it seeks to ensure that the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances is strictly liable for damage caused by an incident involving the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea on that ship.
in writing. ‒ while the 2010 hns convention solves an important task of ensuring accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund in accordance with the principle of polluter pays, it may nevertheless conflict with the provisions of the environmental liability directive which provide that this directive does not apply to environmental damage or to the imminent threat of such damage caused by an event the liability or compensation for which is governed by the international conventions listed in annex iv, as well as their future amendments, in force in that member state. the report is therefore of crucial importance in eu law in defining the limits of the liability of shipowners and operators and their participation in civil proceedings. the document itself is really well prepared and that's why i support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which gives the ep its support for the signing of the protocol to the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on partnership and cooperation to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on a partnership and cooperation agreement to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is a legal document aimed at integrating the newly-accessioned croatia into the eu's existing international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the agreement on partnership and cooperation strengthens bilateral relations between two parties. philippines is an important economic partner for the eu. also, the eu will help philippines to improve the path towards greater democracy and respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the addition of an agreement between the eu and the philippines in view of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. croatia's accession to the eu has slightly altered our trade agreements with the philippines. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also satisfied with the proposal, so i am voting in favour without reservation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which gives the ep its support for the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the philippines is seen by the eu as a strong economic and political partner in asia.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. i believe that this agreement will contribute to the economic development of these countries, promote trade, tourism, scientific progress, strengthen the dissemination of democratic values, respect for human rights, facilitate institutional cooperation in the fight against terrorism, money laundering and illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. croatia's accession to the eu has slightly altered our trade agreements with the philippines. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also satisfied with the proposal, so i am voting in favour without reservation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which gives the ep its support for the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the philippines is a model for other countries in the region in terms of international and national human rights law. i agree that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines in order to reduce poverty, increase social inclusion, strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assist the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, as well as to help implement effective climate change policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the one in which parliament, in a non-legislative resolution, sets out the reasons why it supports the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. the philippines is a model for other countries in the region in terms of international and national human rights law. the philippines is made up of thousands of islands and its geographical location poses challenges to internal communications, infrastructure and trade. in 2014, the eu granted the philippines gsp+ status, making the philippines the first asean country to benefit from such trade preferences, which allows the philippines to export 66% of its total products to the eu, including processed fruit, coconut oil, footwear, fish and textiles, free of export duties. today, the eu is one of the philippines' largest foreign investors and trading partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the eu - philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation in order to support the significance of such bilateral relations.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. i believe that this agreement will contribute to the economic development of these countries, promote trade, tourism, scientific progress, strengthen the dissemination of democratic values, respect for human rights, facilitate institutional cooperation in the fight against terrorism, money laundering and illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. croatia's accession to the eu has slightly altered our trade agreements with the philippines. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also satisfied with the proposal, so i am voting in favour without reservation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for macro-financial assistance to tunisia. tunisia is currently facing great difficulties. the country has been the target of several terrorist attacks and attacks that have substantially affected the main economic sectors targeted, such as the tourism sector. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress in consolidating the country's transition to democracy, implementing the reforms needed to modernise its economic structures and strengthening its relations with its partners. in such circumstances, macro-financial assistance is a european financial instrument that can be mobilised to support a third country in crisis. in august 2015, the european commission, in response to a request from the tunisian government, envisaged a macro-financial assistance programme for tunisia totalling eur 500 million, to be provided in the form of medium-term loans on favourable terms on the financial markets. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures:
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the eu decision to grant additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia. tunisia has succeeded in consolidating its transition to democracy. it now has a constitution that protects the rights and freedoms of its citizens, a consolidated justice system, and an independent media. the country is governed by a broad-based government, which came to power after free and fair elections. it is based on business and modern civil society, which was rightly recognised by the nobel peace prize awarded to the tunisian national dialogue quartet. however, tunisia is currently facing serious difficulties. the country has been the target of several terrorist attacks and attacks that have substantially affected the main economic sectors targeted, such as the tourism sector. in addition, the political and security situation in the region is highly volatile, in particular because of the shared border with libya. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress in consolidating its transition to democracy, implementing the reforms needed to modernise its economic structures and strengthening its relations with its partners, in particular the european union, with which it is currently negotiating a free trade agreement. it is very important that tunisia succeeds in this and that it stands up to all those who want to destabilise it. this is why europe must show solidarity and be determined to support and sustain tunisia's development through very concrete actions that directly support the people of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu’s macro-financial assistance to tunisia is part of a wider effort by the eu and other international donors to help tunisia overcome the severe economic difficulties it has faced since its economic and political transition process began following the 2011 revolution. terrorist attacks in 2015 worsened the situation further by affecting key economic sectors such as tourism and transport.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision to grant additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia. the country has been the target of several terrorist attacks and attacks that have substantially affected the main economic sectors targeted, such as the tourism sector. the political and security situation in the region is highly volatile, particularly with regard to the common border with libya. it is essential that tunisia is able to resist external forces that seek to destabilise it. i believe that the eu's macro-financial assistance programme will help support the reforms being undertaken in tunisia to improve the budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable environment for investment.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is an important partner of the eu. more importantly, it is a close neighbour and its stability can directly reflect our stability and security. i therefore support and encourage everyone to support this eu assistance initiative for tunisia's macroeconomic stability.
in writing. ‒ the anti-tax avoidance directive aims to transpose into eu law measures that limit the erosion of the tax base and the shifting of profits. its basic principle is that taxes must be paid in the country where the profits are earned. the directive also proposes to clearly define terms such as 'permanent residence', 'tax havens' and 'minimum economic activity', which have so far been interpreted in a rather different way, which hinders the effective fight against tax evasion. one of the ep's recommendations is to curb intra-group borrowing, one of the most common ways of showing low profits and thus avoiding taxation. the aim is also to limit the amount of interest payable that could be allowed to be deducted, as this would help to increase the proportion of taxes payable.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the council directive laying down rules for combating tax evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. according to one oecd study, the global economy loses $100 billion to $240 billion annually as a result of aggressive tax optimization by multinational corporations. this amount represents 4/10% of the worldwide income tax revenue. such revenue losses are particularly damaging to states, as they reduce their ability to invest in promoting employment, fighting poverty and developing effective universal health care systems. the creation of economic and monetary union requires harmonisation of the eu tax system. a fair and efficient corporate tax system must become a cornerstone of the single market. in order to create a reliable single market, member states must agree on taxation. a coherent approach to the implementation of tax systems is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the successful completion of the capital markets union. parliament welcomes the commission proposal and considers it a step forward in the fight against tax evasion by multinational companies. however, it considers that the adoption of the proposed amendments would make the proposal clearer and more effective. the main objective of these proposals is to ensure that companies pay taxes where they make profits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. fair and effective corporate taxation must become the cornerstone of the single market. the goal is to fight against fraud from a competitive and productive approach and to protect medium and small businesses from being damaged by these practices. this is the only possible approach if we want to deliver competitiveness and a fairer tax system.
in writing. ‒ today, too often, multinational companies take action to shift their profits to tax havens without paying any corporation tax. i therefore support the amendments to the directive which seek to limit the possibilities for multinational companies to avoid taxation.
in writing. ‒ globalisation not only ensures the free movement of labour, capital, services and goods, but also facilitates the movement of businesses. unfortunately, as the experience of recent years has shown, companies have been very successful in exploiting tax regulatory disparities simply to hide their profits and avoid paying taxes where they produce or provide services. and these taxes finance all the public services, from public safety to ensure that these companies can operate, to training and education to provide companies with skilled workers, to health care to ensure that workers are not only skilled but also healthy. the question we are discussing today is therefore of vital importance to the existence of our present society. will we be able to ensure that companies, especially the big ones, play fair? will we continue to see some companies parasitize at the expense of states, and some states, including some eu member states, help to do so to their own advantage?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. concerns were expressed regarding the obstacles encountered by national parliamentary and judicial investigations into some member states’ involvement in the cia programme, the abuse of state secrecy, and the undue classification of documents resulting in the termination of criminal proceedings and leading to de facto impunity of perpetrators of human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ the so-called cia prisons case is a serious indictment both for the us and for some eu member states. unfortunately, my country is among them. i am in favour of a comprehensive fight against terrorists and all those who threaten our security, but i am convinced that in doing so we must not sink to the same level as terrorists. therefore, i am unambiguously in favour of these allegations being investigated, the truth, however unpleasant it may seem, being acknowledged, first and foremost, by the united states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on space capabilities for european security and defence. space-based capabilities and services play an important role in european security and defence and beyond. i agree that the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the gbs should be increased. i agree that space should be included in future union policies (e.g. internal security, transport, space, energy, research) and that interaction with space should be further enhanced and exploited. the use of space capabilities to combat terrorism and terrorist organisations is also of great importance as it provides the possibility to locate and monitor terrorist training camps. i agree that national governments and the union should improve access to space-based satellite communications, space situational awareness, precise navigation and earth observation capabilities and ensure european independence in relation to key space technologies and access to space.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on space capabilities for european security and defence. space policy is an essential aspect of the strategic autonomy that the eu must ensure in order to maintain its high technological and industrial capacity and its capacity for independent assessment. space capabilities for european security and defence are important and in most cases even vital in all situations, from everyday use in peacetime to crisis management and wider security challenges, including actual warfare. such capacity development requires a long period of time and therefore the development of current capacity requires the programming of future capacity development. the proliferation of space technologies and the increasing dependency of society on satellites is increasing competition for space assets (frequencies, frequencies), satellites are becoming critical infrastructure assets, and the development of anti-satellite technologies by a number of actors, including orbital weapons capabilities, is indicative of efforts to weaponize space. parliament therefore calls on national governments and the union to improve access to space-based satellite communications, space situational awareness, precise navigation and earth observation capabilities and to ensure european independence in relation to key space technologies and access to space. parliament considered that awareness of the situation in outer space would play a very important role in military and civil affairs, but stressed the commitment to the demilitarisation of outer space.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i believe that a holistic, integrated, long-term approach to the space sector at eu level is necessary. the space sector should be mentioned in the new eu global strategy on foreign and security policy, bearing in mind the current development of eu dual-use space programmes and the need to further develop eu civil space programmes that can be used for both civil security and defence purposes.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution because i believe that eu space activities are essential for scientific and technological progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, skilled jobs and business creation.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a great platform for scientific and business cooperation space programme. by allocating several billion euros of eu taxpayers' money each year to this, we should have more control over the tangible benefits they bring. the benefits, i stress, can be measured both in terms of the product that is actually created and valued, and in terms of new technologies or the results of fundamental research. the report under consideration highlights these challenges for eu space policy in considerable detail. it is true that both parliament and the commission's documents support the view and assessment of the other party as a 'business'. what does business want from space policy, how reasonable are its wishes and how unrealistic are they, and why do many space-related business services, even those developed by europeans, rely on american gps rather than european galileo and copernicus services? this is the question to which i have lost the answer in this document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the placing of products from the space sector on the market. eu space activities are essential for scientific and technical progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs and businesses and for new opportunities in both upstream and downstream markets. satellite navigation, earth observation and communication services can make a significant contribution to the implementation of a wide range of union policies. i support calls on the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy to ensure european leadership in the global markets for space technologies and services, independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry in the short, medium and long term. one of the key elements of the strategy should be the development of markets for space data, services and devices, in order to maximise the social and economic benefits of eu space programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is the parliament's position on the development of the space market. eu space activities are essential for scientific and technical progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs and businesses and for new opportunities in both upstream and downstream markets. satellite navigation, earth observation and communication services can make a significant contribution to the implementation of a wide range of union policies and could be of great benefit to eu citizens. the ep therefore called on the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy to ensure european leadership in the global markets for space technologies and services, independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry in the short, medium and long term. parliament also pointed out that one of the key elements of the strategy should be the development of the market for space data, services and devices, in order to maximise the social and economic benefits of eu space programmes. parliament called on the commission to present a proposal for a clear european space policy to be incorporated into the future strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. there is a need to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy, ensuring in the short, medium and long term europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on global markets, ensuring independent access to space for europe and ensuring a level playing field for the european space industry.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution because i believe that eu space activities are essential for scientific and technological progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, skilled jobs and business creation.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a great platform for scientific and business cooperation space programme. by allocating several billion euros of eu taxpayers' money each year to this, we should have more control over the tangible benefits they bring. the benefits, i stress, can be measured both in terms of the product that is actually created and valued, and in terms of new technologies or the results of fundamental research. the report under consideration highlights these challenges for eu space policy in considerable detail. it is true that both parliament and the commission's documents support the view and assessment of the other party as a 'business'. what does business want from space policy, how reasonable are its wishes and how unrealistic are they, and why do many space-related business services, even those developed by europeans, rely on american gps rather than european galileo and copernicus services? this is the question to which i have sought an answer in this document.
in writing. ‒ the i share the grave concern expressed at the serious deterioration of democracy, human rights and the socioeconomic situation in venezuela and the atmosphere of growing political and social instability. i support calls on the venezuelan government to adhere to the principles of the rule of law and separation of powers and to adopt a constructive approach in order to overcome the current crisis in venezuela by adopting constitutional, peaceful and democratic solutions based on dialogue. i support calls by the eu and the vice-presidents of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to urge the release of political prisoners and arbitrarily detained persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the parliament's view on the situation in venezuela. in the course of the five months of legislative activity of the national assembly of venezuela, which is predominantly composed of the democratic opposition, the supreme court has issued 13 politically motivated decisions in favour of the executive, all of which risk upsetting the necessary balance of power in the rule of law. similarly, in venezuela, the political imprisonment, house arrest or suspended sentences of some 2 000 individuals, including important political leaders, for political reasons, demonstrate the government's influence and control over the judiciary and the national electoral council, which adversely affects the legislative and opposition powers that are the basis of any democratic system, and which clearly violates the principle of independence and separation of powers that is inherent in democratic states governed by the rule of law. parliament therefore expresses its deep concern at the serious deterioration of democracy, human rights and the socioeconomic situation in venezuela and the atmosphere of growing political and social instability. calls on the government of venezuela to adopt a constructive approach to overcome the current critical situation in venezuela by adopting constitutional, peaceful and democratic solutions based on dialogue;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. there was expressed a serious concern at the increasingly deteriorating social tension caused by the shortage of basic goods such as food and medicines. therefore, the european parliament calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution expressing concern at the sharp deterioration of democracy, human rights and the socioeconomic situation in venezuela and the growing atmosphere of political and social instability. i support calls for the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to work more closely with latin american countries and regional and international organisations to ensure that mechanisms of dialogue, national reconciliation and mediation are in place in venezuela, and thus support a peaceful, democratic and constitutional solution to the current crisis in the country.
in writing. - the situation in venezuela has been a concern for a long time. basically, we're seeing a country that's collapsing. a country where almost all food grows and where there is enough of both natural resources and human capacity to live well, safely and prosperously. the crisis is easily attributed to an undemocratic political regime, a poorly functioning public administration and a long-term dependence on oil exports. it is good that the commission and parliament are looking for an answer to the question 'how can we help?' it is clear that humanitarian aid is not enough to solve the current crisis. this does not mean that the eu does not have to allocate a small budget to this support. the territory of an eu member state is also very close by - french guiana - and we certainly do not want the threat of unrest in the neighbourhood to affect this territory. clearly, the humanitarian intervention and political overthrow proposed by some south american countries will not change the situation much either. it is clear that the venezuelan people must take responsibility for their own future and take the initiative to change the situation. the eu must do everything it can to help.
in writing. ‒ active substances which are deemed to have endocrine disruptors can pose a significant threat to the welfare of people that are exposed to them. the general court of the european union declared on 16 december 2015 that the commission breached eu law by failing to act to adopt delegated acts to specify scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. the failure of the commission to not comply with its obligation and a violation of its institutional obligations must be noted. i voted in favour of this resolution as the commission must propose scientific criteria for determining endocrine-disrupting properties before the summer. the commission must comply with its obligations and this resolution and its forwarding to the president of the council and commission will help reach that goal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is delaying the publication of criteria to determine whether a chemical is endocrine disrupting. the commission committed to do so by the end of 2013. as early as 2013, the european parliament called on the commission to take measures to reduce the exposure of humans to endocrine disrupting substances. these substances are likely to cause premature puberty, cancer and metabolic disorders. in december last year, the european court of justice recognised that the european commission had not established scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting substances in a timely manner. they were prepared back in 2013 but not published because it was decided to carry out an impact assessment, although this was not required by eu law. the commission should immediately implement its commitment and publish these criteria by the end of june this year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is parliament's position on endocrine disrupting chemicals and the situation following the judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015. under eu law, active substances that are considered by scientific criteria to have endocrine disrupting properties that may cause adverse effects in humans are not approved. the commission has not yet adopted delegated acts setting out scientific criteria and their adoption is currently more than two and a half years behind schedule. in its judgment of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14, the general court of the european union found that the commission had infringed eu law by failing to adopt delegated acts establishing scientific criteria for the definition of endocrine disrupting properties. in its resolution, parliament condemned the commission not only for failing to fulfil its duty to adopt delegated acts but also for failing to fulfil its institutional obligations under the treaties themselves, and recalled the commission's political commitment to present a proposal by the summer on scientific criteria for the definition of endocrine-disrupting properties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the general court ruled that the specification of scientific criteria can only be carried out in an objective manner on the basis of scientific data related to the endocrine system, independently of any other consideration, in particular economic ones, and that the commission is not entitled to change the regulatory balance laid down in a basic act via the application of powers delegated to it pursuant to article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the eu is in a dangerous situation as regards the control of dangerous substances. the court of justice of the eu last year found that the commission had breached eu law by failing to publish scientific criteria to be used to determine the endocrine-disrupting properties of the endocrine system when the current interim criteria do not provide an adequate level of protection. unfortunately, the commission did not act and decided in 2013 to carry out a social and economic impact assessment of the possible scientific criteria. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. this decision seems even more strange in the sense that no one has asked the commission to carry out such an investigation, i.e. we can conclude that the commission has decided on its own initiative to violate eu law and has suspended the preparation of all legislation relevant to the health of europeans. we note that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has itself infringed the eu treaties. it seems strange that the commissioner responsible for this issue, mr andriukaitis, has told parliament that the commission will still carry out an impact assessment and will not adopt the necessary legislation. we must condemn this behaviour of the commission, demand the immediate implementation of eu law adoption of delegated acts under regulation 528/2012 and the fulfilment of its institutional obligations under article 266 of the eu treaty, and recall that the explanations provided by president juncker or commissioner andriukaitis appear regrettable and cast doubt on their ability to perform their duties.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2009, the company syngenta france sas submitted to the competent authority of germany an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing genetically modified maize. as specified in the application, maize contains a protein which confers resistance to glyphosate herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized cancer agency of the world health organisation classified glyphosate as a substance with possible carcinogenic potential for humans. the ep therefore considers that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for and therefore supports the request to the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the parliament's call for the commission to implement a decision allowing the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize. in 2009 the company syngenta france sas submitted to the competent authority of germany an application to place foods, food ingredients and feed containing maize on the market. the application also concerns the placing on the market of products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize for uses other than food or feed. in 2013, syngenta extended the scope of the application to cover all combinations of individual genetic modifications that constitute maize. that maize contains a protein which confers protection against certain insect pests of the order of the scarab beetle and a protein which confers resistance to glyphosate herbicides. in 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized cancer agency of the world health organisation classified glyphosate as a substance with possible carcinogenic effects in humans. for these reasons, parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for and asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the implementation of the commission’s decision to authorize the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize. such a maize contains a protein which confers protection against certain platoon moth pests and the proteins which confer tolerance to glyphosate herbicides which was classified as toxic to humans.
in writing. ‒ the commission has forwarded to us a request from syngenta for authorisation to grow four maize varieties in the eu, which are essentially genetically modified products. and we have no information about the long-term effects of this corn on the human body. i am therefore convinced that we must unequivocally say 'no' to such a request. europe is no place for genetically modified food!
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the company suntory holdings limited (osaka, japan) notified the competent authority of the netherlands of the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations. since the ep considers that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers established, i am in favour of the request to the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is parliament's opinion on the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations. in 2013, a notification concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations was submitted by suntory holdings limited, osaka, japan, to the competent authority of the netherlands. the notification covers the import, distribution and retail of genetically modified carnations of the cut line intended for decorative purposes only in the union. the regulatory committee did not deliver an opinion, with seven member states (representing 7,84% of the population) voting against the draft commission implementing decision, six member states (representing 46,26%) abstaining, eleven member states (representing 36,29%) voting in favour and four member states not represented. the efsa opinion also states that the efsa gmo panel is aware of the dietary habits of certain population groups when it comes to the deliberate consumption of carnation ringlets. for these reasons, parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in this directive and asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the commission has forwarded to us an application from the japanese company suntory holdings limited to allow the cultivation in the eu of genetically modified carnations, which are essentially genetically modified products. and we have no information about the long-term effects of these gnaws on the environment and on living organisms. i am therefore convinced that we must unequivocally say 'no' to such a request. europe is no place for genetically modified crops!
author. – madam president, two months ago i took part in the subcommittee on human rights mission to cambodia. it was a highly alarming and eye—opening exposure to the country’s deteriorating political reality. just recently, sam rainsy, leader of the main opposition party, who aimed to establish a real culture of dialogue, was issued with a politically motivated arrest warrant. he and many other political and human rights activists have been convicted for what was a legitimate and peaceful exercise of their freedom of expression. i urge the cambodian authorities to revoke the arrest warrant and drop all the charges against sam rainsy and other opposition politicians and human rights activists. i call on them to immediately guarantee the freedom of expression and all democratic freedoms for cambodians. i stress the need for further and strong involvement of the european union in cambodian issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at simplifying the recognition of birth or marriage certificates. the new rules will simplify the presentation of certain public documents, such as birth or marriage certificates, to authorities in other eu countries. for example, they will no longer need to be legalised or translated into another language. the regulation provides that a multilingual standard form may be attached to certain civil status documents or certificates of authenticity. it will allow those wishing to present these documents to the authorities of other eu countries to avoid the obligation to present them together with a translation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation of certain public documents in the european union. the purpose of this act is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the recognition of certain public documents in the european union. the legislation does not regulate the recognition of the content of public documents, as it aims to preserve the independence of the member states in the field of family law. mobility of union citizens is a reality: some 12 million citizens study, work or live in a member state other than that of their nationality. while union citizens and businesses currently enjoy the right of free movement or the freedoms of the internal market, they may face administrative difficulties when they have to submit public documents to the authorities of another member state, for example when they arrive in another member state. following interinstitutional negotiations, the legislature and the commission reached a compromise text. this regulation thus applies to the civil status documents and to certain other documents frequently requested by citizens and relating, for example, to residence, nationality and conviction. the regulation provides that these authentic instruments do not require legalisation and apostille - the two administrative formalities normally required for authentic instruments issued by another member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. parliament would have liked to include within the scope of the regulation diplomas and education certificates, certificates of disability and certain documents relevant to businesses. furthermore, multilingual standard forms cannot circulate autonomously but must be annexed to the appropriate national documents, which constitutes an avoidable complication.
in writing. ‒ the legislation under consideration will simplify the recognition of certain public documents in the european union. some 12 million union citizens study, work or live in a member state other than that of their nationality. it is therefore clear that they may face a number of bureaucratic obstacles, in particular in relation to the recognition of documents issued in another country. it is important to note that the legislation does not regulate the recognition of the content of public documents. this preserves the independence of the member states in the area of family law. more importantly, public documents will not require the two administrative formalities of legalisation and apostille that are applied to documents issued by another member state. these simplifications for citizens are counterbalanced by the possibility for the administrative body receiving the document to request, by electronic means, the authenticity of the document directly from the issuing body. it is also welcome that the regulation establishes multilingual standard forms for many of the necessary public documents. they will be issued by the national authorities. this will greatly simplify procedures for eu citizens when they arrive in another member state. unfortunately, the outcome of the negotiations with the council has disappointed parliament on some issues. for some reason, the council did not agree to include diplomas and certificates of completion of training courses, certificates of disability and certain documents of importance to businesses in the scope of the regulation. it also did not allow multilingual standard forms to be submitted separately, they had to be attached to the corresponding national documents, a difficulty that could have been avoided. but that does not change the fact that much progress has been made.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is the fourth one, concerning the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced various amendments concerning the composition and the rules of procedure of the court of justice and the general court, while the second regulation introduced a provision on temporary judges of the civil service tribunal. the third part of the reform was the subject of the main dispute, since it concerned the increase in the number of judges of the general court. the number of judges was increased on condition that the civil service tribunal was abolished and that civil service disputes were returned to the general court. this regulation is therefore drawn up in the light of the third regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the tribunal of the seven judges should be abolished in the second stage of the increase in the number of judges at the general court from 40 to 47. the court's proposal is therefore logical and in line with what the legislature has asked to be taken into account. so i'm in favor of the deal.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the regulation conferring jurisdiction on the general court of the european union as the first instance for the settlement of disputes between the union and its servants. this regulation is the fourth to deal with the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced various amendments concerning the composition and the rules of procedure of the court of justice and the general court, while the second regulation introduced a provision on temporary judges of the civil service tribunal. the third part of the reform was the subject of the main dispute, since it concerned the increase in the number of judges of the general court. the original plan was to increase this number from 28 to 40. at the council's insistence, the legislature finally decided to increase the number of judges at the general court to 56, with the aim of allowing each member state to appoint two judges. the number of judges was increased on condition that the civil service tribunal was abolished and that civil service disputes were returned to the general court. this regulation is therefore drawn up in the light of the third regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the tribunal of the seven judges should be abolished in the second stage of the increase in the number of judges at the general court from 40 to 47. the court's proposal is therefore logical and in line with what the legislature has asked to be taken into account. it only proposes to repeal the provisions on the civil service tribunal and a number of minor amendments and transitional provisions relating to it. the amendments in question naturally involve the repeal of the second regulation on the reform of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it meets the immediate efficiency and performance-related needs of the general court. this will simplify the judicial structure of the european union, enhance its overall efficiency and promote consistency in its case law.
in writing. ‒ this communication contains a number of technical amendments which, if adopted, would make the legislation clearer. the amending provisions are more clearly worded. the proposal includes the conditions for the referral to the general court of pending civil service tribunal cases. the tribunal shall decide on the appeal before the civil service tribunal. in order to ensure legal certainty, these cases will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure of the general court
in writing. ‒ the issue under consideration is purely technical. i don't think he's worth the long discussion. i would also like to stress that the transfer of new functions to the general court of the eu may also require additional expenditure from its budget, which the rapporteur unfortunately does not mention at all.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution of 15 january 2013, parliament called on the commission to adopt a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, but the commission's proposal did not take parliament's call into account, despite the fact that the resolution was adopted by a very large majority in plenary. i therefore support the calls for the commission to submit a proposal for a legislative act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it reminds the commission that in its resolution of 15 january 2013 parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, but the commission's proposal did not take parliament's call into account, despite the fact that the resolution was adopted by a very large majority in plenary. calls on the commission, therefore, to consider the accompanying proposal for a regulation and to submit a legislative proposal with a view to including it in its 2017 work programme;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. properly structured and consistent administrative procedures support both efficient administration and proper enforcement of the right to good administration guaranteed as a general principle of union law and under article 41 of the charter. therefore, an efficient union administration is essential for the public interest. an excess, as well as a lack, of rules and procedures can lead to maladministration, which may also result from the existence of contradictory, inconsistent or unclear rules and procedures.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution calling on the commission to include in its 2017 work programme a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. such a regulation would contribute to the transparency and efficiency of the work of the eu institutions and agencies, and would ensure that people who approach them receive answers and all the information they need in an expeditious manner.
in writing. ‒ i find it difficult to understand why the commission is ignoring parliament's proposal for a regulation that would help define the openness, efficiency and independence of the eu administration. as can be seen from the written question put by my colleagues, the commission is not required to explain the reasons for its conduct in general. and that's a worrying sign of arrogance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry to be improved. the european rail supply industry, which is involved in the manufacture of locomotives and rolling stock, track, electrical equipment, signalling and telecommunications equipment, as well as maintenance and parts supply services and includes a large number of smes as well as major industry leaders, employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and technological development and accounts for 46% of the global r & d market. the rail supply industry is one of the most important industries for europe's competitiveness and innovation capacity. i support the call for the commission to take measures to ensure that europe maintains its technological and innovation edge in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution because it is parliament's voice on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry. the european rail supply industry, which is involved in the manufacture of locomotives and rolling stock, track, electrical equipment, signalling and telecommunications equipment, as well as maintenance and parts supply services and includes a large number of smes as well as major industry leaders, employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and technological development and accounts for 46% of the global r & d market. notes that the total number of employees in the railway sector, comprising operators and infrastructure, is over 1 million directly and a further 1,2 million indirectly; notes that these figures clearly demonstrate the importance of grc for industrial growth, job creation and innovation, as well as its contribution to the 20% reindustrialisation target; the parliament therefore asks the commission to make full use of the various eu funding instruments, to explore and exploit additional sources of funding for the 'shift2rail' company and to seek synergies between different eu funds and private investments. calls on the commission to use additional eu funding for rail technologies not covered by shift2rail, including for the preparation of the shift2rail pilot scheme, which would bring eu funding into line with the structural funds and other eu innovation funds;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the railway sector overall, including operators and infrastructure, is responsible for more than 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. it is important for european industrial growth, jobs and innovation, and in terms of its contribution to the achievement of the 20% reindustrialisation target. therefore, in order to boost competiveness, it is highly important to encourage member states to replace old equipment with modern and sustainable products on a larger scale and to focus on digitalisation in order to increase the performance of rail and to lower its operational costs.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on strengthening the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. the resolution highlights a number of important problems faced by companies active in this field. i support the provisions in the resolution on promoting investment in rail projects, increasing support for small and mediumsized enterprises and improving market conditions.
in writing. ‒ rail remains probably the most environmentally friendly mode of motor transport and at the same time one of the cheapest. unfortunately, the european railway sector is under immense competitive pressure from third countries. the question of colleagues was very timely, indeed: how can we stimulate the recovery of the european railway sector, how can we ensure its competitiveness? one of the measures currently being implemented in my country is the construction of the via baltica european standard railway. this will undoubtedly create additional demand for both rail services and the rail industry. but we also need to think about measures to encourage businesses to use the railway more. the commission has not yet made any proposals on this matter.
in writing. – we all feel the same sorrow and outrage in wake of the horrific attacks in orlando and paris. innocent lives have become victims of an act of terrorism, and this horrific violence has become almost commonplace recently all over the world. we are faced with the great task of improving our efforts to prevent radicalisation and counter violent extremism. the fact that many of these attacks are conducted by european radicals show that radicalisation is easier and more of a threat than ever. the return of radicalised europeans from conflict areas in africa and the middle east pose a significant risk to europe. we need to adopt effective measures and we must be aware of the magnitude of the situation. the commission has made great progress on this issue in its security policy measures. we must educate our population and highlight the many examples of peaceful coexistence, tolerance, and the large numbers of cultures that live together in harmony. this fight requires a long-term approach with commitment from the european union and the member states. in the end, democratic societies will always win against terror and extremism.
in writing. the european union is looking for solutions and ways to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment. this problem could be reduced by taking into account the reports submitted by the academic community. they note that graduates who are prepared for the market often do not meet the expectations and qualifications of employers, and therefore they face problems or are unable to fill even vacant jobs. it should be noted that the conditions and quality of education are often deteriorating, as a result of the fragmentation of university programmes and an overemphasis on competences in a narrow field of knowledge. employers complain about graduates' skills and are critical of the new degree structure, noting that the length of study required to obtain a bachelor's degree is not sufficient to meet the needs of the labour market. the lack of recognition of professional qualifications for bachelor's degrees and the application of a huge number of rules to the decision-making process also pose problems for the recruitment of specialists. we must therefore call on the commission to take all the necessary measures and make proposals to help the academic community to develop and to prepare the specialists needed by employers. this would help graduates to find jobs and employers to recruit the qualified workers they need. for those who already have the necessary qualifications, it should be ensured that the recognition of professional qualifications is smooth and does not take a lot of time.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i actually think that the colleague was very right about the need to be regulated. but on the other hand, we know today that nord stream 2 is going on in parallel and, in practice, the further it goes, the faster it goes. and i read today that mrs merkel seems to be in favour of this project. will it be that our beautiful dreams will only be in beautiful protocols? and when nord stream ii comes to europe, the talk of renewables will be very thin.
today, in the context of the progress report on renewable energy, i should stress that there is a lack of investment in renewable energy. moreover, in recent years, they have tended to decline. by the age of 15, compared with 14, they had dropped by almost a fifth. support for these investments at local, regional, national and european level is clearly too low. the involvement of all relevant stakeholders, including politicians, is insufficient. the renovation should also be much larger. and the potential for wind power generation in the north sea or the north sea region is also under-exploited. we will not make any progress in the use of renewable energy if the european energy strategy is not put into action, not in words, and if there is no single energy policy and no single voice on it. gentlemen, who are we trying to fool? ourselves or society? when we talk about renewable energy in the morning and in the afternoon we applaud and shake the heads of the fossil fuel lobbyists who have come to support one project after another? and one more thing. the cost of energy from renewable sources to the final consumer must not be significantly higher, but lower, by subsidising part of that price.
in writing. the european union is right to take the view that energy efficiency and renewable energy must go hand in hand, as in today's world they are not possible without each other. the eu has demonstrated this understanding both at global level by actively supporting the ambitious paris agreement on climate change and in its own legislation by reinforcing its commitment to reduce consumption and make it more environmentally friendly. however, the situation is more complicated in practice, as the energy efficiency directive, which aims to achieve the 20% efficiency barrier by 2020, is still not fully implemented in many member states and is unlikely to achieve its objective. the report therefore suggests that the renewed directive should raise the target to 40% efficiency by 2030 is out of touch with reality and may once again be 'on paper'. we must take account of the present situation, because the pursuit of energy efficiency cannot become an end in itself we must maintain the eu's competitiveness on the global market. the development of renewable energy sources is necessary and it is important that the eu sets ambitious targets. i am pleased that the progress report on this issue included important proposals from the eea group, in particular on the diversification of energy resources and the competence of states to choose the most appropriate energy mix for their use.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has today voted to appoint members to its committee of inquiry into alleged contraventions of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in cases of money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it was decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the long-named body committee of inquiry into alleged contraventions of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in cases of money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance a key eu body in the fight against financial crime. we must therefore ensure that its members have a good reputation. equally important is their expertise in financial matters. i am sure that all the political groups have sent their best representatives to it, although, to be honest, i have never seen that reputation and expertise be proven in any way. i also regret that the principle of representation of all member states is not respected some countries do not have representatives on the committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to establish financial and technical rules to enable the republic of lebanon to participate in certain european union programmes. the protocol lays down the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation within the horizontal framework and allows the republic of lebanon to receive union assistance, including financial assistance, under those programmes. that system shall apply only to those european union programmes in which the relevant constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation of the republic of lebanon. the conclusion of the protocol therefore does not confer the powers of the various sectoral policies implemented under the programmes which are used for the establishment of the programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the framework agreements established an association between the eu and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is an important partner of the european union, both in trade and, more importantly, in security. a fundamental principle of the european union is to build security through inclusion. the approval of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, laying down the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes, will therefore contribute significantly to the rapprochement between the eu and lebanon, to the improvement of mutual understanding and, if not to the strengthening of security in the region, at least to the prevention of crises in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it approves, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it established the partnership between the eu and the republic of lebanon as well as took into account the enlargement of the european union which happened in 2004 when 10 at that time new member states joined the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. the enlargement of the european union in 2004 and the accession of 10 new countries to the eu have slightly altered our trade agreements with lebanon. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also pleased with the proposal, and i therefore vote unequivocally in favour of the continued free flow of eu trade with our important partner lebanon, thus contributing to the creation of an area of prosperity and stability in europe's neighbourhood.
in writing. i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it approves, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the agreement established partnership between the eu and the republic of lebanon and highlighted the accession of bulgaria and romania in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is not a question that requires much debate. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu has slightly altered our trade agreements with lebanon. today we are simply legitimizing a newly created situation. as far as i know, our trading partners are also happy with the proposal, and i therefore vote unequivocally in favour of the continued free flow of eu trade with our important partner, lebanon, thus contributing to the creation of an area of prosperity and stability in europe's neighbourhood.
in writing. i'm with you on that.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the negotiation by parliament of an agreement between the european union and monaco on the automatic exchange of financial account information with a view to improving international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the eu member states and monaco shall exchange information on the financial accounts held by residents of the eu member states and monaco in their territories as of 1 january 2017 on an automatic basis as from the year 2018. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that monaco applies more stringent measures that are equivalent to the eu legal order and that it follows the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information recommended by the 2014 oecd global standard. also, in addition to information on income such as interest and dividends, information on account balances and income from the sale of financial assets should be exchanged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this is an important partnership agreement which allows to exchange financial account information with an important financial partner of eu – monaco. the agreement ensures the efficiency of the information flow between two parties as well as transparency of financial account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and monaco on an agreement on the exchange of information on financial accounts. in particular, it will facilitate the improvement of international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. it should be noted that the agreement contributes to the development of the prevention of tax fraud. the agreement also includes a key element of enabling tax administrations to administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border cases. the agreement is also significant in that the principality of monaco will apply stricter measures that are equivalent to the eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ monaco is sometimes classified as a 'tax haven' and, not always without reason, accused of aiding tax evasion. i am therefore confident that this protocol on the exchange of information on financial account data will help monaco to get rid of the shameful tax haven label and will help the european union in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. this agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, complementing the 2004 agreement which ensured that monaco applied measures equivalent to those of the eu savings directive on taxation of income.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help belgium to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by three firms. the total amount of the egf for belgium is to be eur 1 824 041. the application concerns 488 redundant workers and up to 300 targeted young people who are not in employment, education or training. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers consist of six types of measures: support, counselling and integration, (ii) job search facilitation, (iii) integrated training, (iv) support for business start-ups, (v) support for collective projects and (vi) job search and training allowances. tailored services for neets include: (i) inclusion and counselling through learning referral or special introductory courses; (ii) training; (iii) upskilling tailored to individual needs; and (iv) job search, training and mobility allowances. as the commission points out, the proposed actions described are active labour market measures, which are eligible for funding. these actions do not replace passive social protection measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 4 may 2016 the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in three enterprises operating under the nace revision 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c.) in the nuts level 2 region of hainaut (be32) in belgium.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal for financial assistance submitted on the basis of the application submitted by belgium. in particular, this support is necessary to mitigate existing negative effects. in addition, measures to help workers integrate into the labour market by increasing their employability, by providing access to training courses or other measures adapted to their needs, and by providing for specific measures for young people only, will be appropriate. however, it is essential to ensure that the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination is respected in the implementation of all the measures envisaged and that any double funding is avoided.
in writing. ‒ application by hainaut machinery for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund a sad issue of globalisation and the intensifying global competitive struggle. but to prevent people from being left on the streets when large companies close, the globalisation adjustment fund was set up. the case we're looking at is pretty sad. now even more are being requested. and all this in a region where the labor market is already tough, with an unemployment rate of 14.5 percent, or 5.9 percent above the national average. in the hainaut region (heno), job vacancies have decreased by 13% since 2012 and the market itself is characterised by a high level of unskilled labour: almost half of jobseekers have no secondary education. i therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal and call on the member states to take measures to avoid such large-scale redundancies.
in writing. i particularly welcome the position of the belgian authorities and the cooperation with the social partners in supporting joint projects for employees considering the possibility of setting up a so-called social enterprise together as a group, as this measure can have a very high added value. i welcome the fact that in addition to the 488 redundant workers, 300 young people under 25 years of age who are not in employment or education (neets) and who live in the same region are expected to participate in the measures and benefit from the egf co-financing of personalised services, which include: inclusion and counselling by means of learning mobility or by offering introductory courses to identify interests; specific training courses; personalised upskilling; job search, training and mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it aims to ensure a uniform and effective application of all measures adopted in the 2012-2014 recovery plan throughout the european union. the technical measures included in the proposal relate to the transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna (including measures relating to the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate quantities of bluefin tuna and released fish), catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme. the new cfp basic regulation introduces an obligation to land all catches, which also applies to bluefin tuna. however, the landing obligation applies without prejudice to the union's international obligations. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in order to implement such international obligations in union law, including in particular provisions allowing for derogations from the landing obligation. thus, the discarding of bluefin tuna will be permitted in certain cases as determined by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the agreement was reached in principle on a proposal aimed at implementing measures of the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ tuna is a vital part of the fish supply. unfortunately, many fishing countries have the capacity to destroy most of the world's tuna stocks without regulating fishing. to that end, we are today adopting a multiannual recovery plan for tuna. in evaluating the document, i can point to three shortcomings. the first plan is pretty irresponsible. it pays very little attention to the restoration of fish stocks, the essential condition of which is to fish far less than the adult fish. the second weakness of the plan is its social irresponsibility: the poorer eu member states are treated in the same way as the richer ones, despite the fact that not even the expansion of fisheries, but their recovery after irresponsible actions to reduce eu fishing capacity, could become one of the engines of regional growth and even regional expansion. and the third weakness is that the plan does not pay enough attention to working with non-eu countries, especially those known for their failure to comply with international agreements. still, a bad plan is better than no plan at all. i therefore vote against, while at the same time calling on the commission to take account of the comments made in the future.
in writing. in implementing this plan, member states should pay particular attention to non-industrial fishing activities and non-industrial sustainable gear types such as traditional traps (e.g. almadraba, tonnare), which have a very positive contribution to the recovery of tuna stocks due to their high selectivity and low environmental impact in marine ecosystems, and also have scientific value.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it aims to establish a mixed management plan for cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, which is the main fishing area for these three species. in recent years, 94% of the fish caught in the baltic sea were cod, herring and sprat. the baltic sea is essentially a closed sea where these three species are widespread and constantly interacting. it is therefore important to establish rules that take into account the interaction between those species, the impact of cod on stocks of haddock and sprat, and the impact of the latter on stocks of cod. given the significant impact of biological interactions and environmental conditions on the resources in the baltic sea, it is desirable that the scale and patterns of exploitation of these resources be adapted to reflect the revised scientific data on such interactions and changes in environmental conditions. in addition, such a method would be in line with the principle of ecosystem-based fisheries management. in order to achieve such adaptive management, the first step would be for the commission to propose that all the relevant resources be included in a single management plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. multiannual plans for fisheries management are an essential tool to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems. european parliament supported a proposal for multiannual plan for stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting them. this baltic multiannual and multispecies plan is the first proposed plan to build on the principles of the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the i support this multiannual baltic cod, sprat and herring management plan. the plan will ensure that fishing in the baltic sea is sustainable and more predictable, and that the balance between the use of resources and the stability of fishing opportunities is maintained. it is also the first plan to actually cover different fish stocks, ensuring that their management is based on the latest scientific information. the additional sustainable fisheries buffers provided for will help to respond appropriately to the changing situation of the stocks. it should be noted that the measures provided for in this long-term plan will help to preserve the small-scale fisheries sector and ensure a reliable income from fishing. the rules will be clearer and simpler for fishermen. a clear, predictable and long-term conservation-oriented management of fish stocks will be established.
in writing. ‒ fishing in the eu's main inland seas the baltic sea is a highly sensitive issue. it is sensitive not only to us, the representatives of the baltic sea countries, but also to the entire baltic ecosystem. the countries around the sea have the capacity to destroy all fish stocks in this sea if fishing is not regulated. to this end, we are today adopting a multiannual plan for the management and fishing of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. in evaluating the document, i can point to three shortcomings. the first plan is pretty irresponsible. it pays very little attention to the restoration of fish stocks, the essential condition of which is to catch fewer fish than they are grown. the second weakness of the plan is its social irresponsibility: the poorer eu member states are treated in the same way as the richer ones, despite the fact that not even the expansion of fisheries, but their recovery after irresponsible actions to reduce eu fishing capacity, could become one of the engines of regional growth and balanced regional expansion. and the third weakness is that the plan does not pay enough attention to working with non-eu baltic sea countries, which are notorious for their failure to comply with international agreements. still, a bad plan is better than no plan at all. i therefore vote against, while at the same time calling on the commission to take account of the comments made in the future.
in writing. the objective of this plan should be to restore, achieve and maintain populations of the species concerned above levels which can ensure sustainable fishing of the stocks concerned, while minimising the impact on other species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns the proposal for a council regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial property regime. this regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples living in the european union. it governs the jurisdiction, the law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial property regime. however, matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of the marriage, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse are not covered by the scope of the regulation. the independence of the member states in the field of family law is thus preserved. furthermore, the regulation does not affect the substantive law of the member states as regards the matrimonial property regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the proposal aims to establish a clear legal framework in the european union, both harmonising and streamlining the determination of jurisdiction and the law applicable to matrimonial property and registered property regimes for cross-border cases and facilitating the movement of decisions and instruments among the member states according to a single scheme.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it should be noted that the unification of jurisdiction in matters of matrimonial property regimes will enable international couples to settle property matters without splitting it, but by applying a common law to all property, regardless of the location of the property. this will ensure the fairness of the dispute, since it is clear which court has jurisdiction to rule on claims relating to the matrimonial property regime. in addition, it allows the spouses themselves to choose the applicable law, subject to certain limitations.
in writing. ‒ families, or in broader terms couples who come from or live in different countries are increasingly becoming a part of the increasingly globalised everyday life of our times. it is therefore necessary to ensure specific, clear and transparent rules on the regulation of civil relationships between such couples, the protection of their property interests and standards for the protection of the rights of children. i welcome this initiative, i urge my colleague to vote in favour and i urge the commission and the member states to continue the dialogue with stakeholders on improving regulation in this area.
in writing. this regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples living in the european union. it governs the jurisdiction, the law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial property regime. the adoption of this regulation will remove many of the particular cases and legal difficulties.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it concerns the recognition and enforcement of the council regulation on jurisdiction, the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial property regime. this regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples living in the european union. it governs the jurisdiction, the law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships. however, matters relating to the capacity of partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a partnership, maintenance obligations and the succession of the estate of a deceased partner are not covered by the scope of the regulation. the independence of the member states in the field of family law is thus preserved. furthermore, the regulation does not affect the substantive law of the member states relating to registered partnerships or their property consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the proposed regulation provides for the free movement of decisions, authentic instruments and court settlements concerning matrimonial property regimes introducing mutual recognition based on the mutual trust arising out of the integration of the member states within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i accept the offer. the proposal correctly transposes the relevant iccat recommendations, which ensure a level playing field for all tuna fishermen. in order to ensure effective implementation of the measures, it is important to progressively reduce the total allowable catch, to restrict fishing in certain areas and periods, to establish new commercial sizes, measures relating to sport and recreational fishing activities, measures on fish farming and fishing capacity and to strengthen the iccat joint international inspection system. the new regulation will close the existing legal gap, help to harmonise the applicable law in regional fisheries and to differentiate regulation according to the characteristics of the different tuna fishing gear.
in writing. ‒ families, or in broader terms couples who come from or live in different countries an increasingly commonplace phenomenon in the increasingly globalised everyday life of our times. it is therefore necessary to ensure specific, clear and transparent regulation of civil relationships between such couples, protection of the property interests, recognition of court decisions and standards for the protection of children's rights. i welcome this initiative, i urge my colleague to vote in favour and i urge the commission and the member states to continue the dialogue with stakeholders on improving regulation in this area.
in writing. the regulation provides for a choice of law applicable to the property consequences of a registered partnership, but this choice is limited to the requirement of nationality or permanent residence in the state concerned. this regulation differs from the regulation on the matrimonial property regime in that registered partners may also choose the law of the state in which the partnership is registered.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution as it expresses grave concern at the escalation of violence and the worrying and deteriorating humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc), which is mainly due to the armed conflict in the eastern provinces that has been going on for more than 20 years, regrets the loss of life and expresses sympathy for the people of the drc. the resolution calls for a full, independent and transparent investigation of the killings by the international community and calls for the establishment of a permanent political dialogue between the great lakes countries to prevent further destabilisation. calls also on the eu to send an observer to assess the humanitarian situation and to draw the attention of the international community to the killings, to consider targeted sanctions, including travel bans and asset freezes, against those responsible for violent clashes in the drc, and calls on the eu and its member states to continue to provide assistance to the drc population; it recalls that the neutralization of all armed groups will make a major contribution to peace and stability in the region and that the eu must pursue a coherent policy across the board and promote peace, stability, development and human rights in the negotiation of agreements in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the report. the report declares that president kabila, who has been in power since 2001, is required to step down on 20 december 2016 as the mandate of the president of the drc is limited under the congolese constitution to only two terms. by not yet having declared that he will do so, he is exacerbating political tensions in the country.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. as the security situation in the north-east of the democratic republic of the congo continues to deteriorate, it was necessary to take appropriate measures. it is essential that all relevant authorities take immediate action to bring the perpetrators to justice. urgent action is needed to stabilise the situation and ensure human rights in the eastern part of the congo and to properly implement the principles of legality and non-punishment. the criminal activities of all armed groups without exception must be stopped immediately. it should be noted that the current situation should not prevent the holding of elections as provided for in the constitution. it is also essential that the international community takes action and initiates a full, independent and transparent investigation into the killings.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing violence in the heart of africa congo is often overshadowed by the military conflicts in europe. nevertheless, we europeans must do everything we can to bring peace and stability to one of africa's largest countries. this would also contribute to the stability of the whole continent. we cannot allow the islamic or other extremists to continue to rampage in the congo, human rights violations to continue, and the illegal trade in minerals behind the scenes to continue to fill the pockets of war criminals. together, we must enable africans to become masters of their own destiny. we must encourage joint efforts by the african union countries to resolve conflicts and secure peace. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution and i ask my colleague to support it. i would say even more that the draft resolution could have focused more on supporting the efforts of the africans themselves in the congo and in the neighbouring countries to get their own backyard in order.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's review of the et 2020 programme. in the review, the experts note that one of the consequences of the mass interest in higher education is the growing inequality within education systems. as the system expands, the gap between the best and worst educational institutions in any country increases, with negative effects on the quality of education, the employability of graduates and social cohesion. the inclusion of support for teachers as one of the new priorities of the et 2020 is welcomed, as the quality of teacher training and continuing professional development programmes still does not match the increasing range and complexity of competences. but the reports raise concerns that academics are taking a negative view of the bologna process and employers are complaining about graduates' skills and are critical of the new degree structure. the evaluation notes that progress in integrating pupils and students of migrant origin varies between member states. it is also noted that it is important to prevent the brain drain or brain drain of highly skilled migrants for the benefit of both themselves and the host countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. education and training 2020 (et2020) is the framework for cooperation in education and training. it covers exchanges of best practice, mutual learning, gathering and dissemination of information and evidence of what works, as well as the provision of advice and support for policy reforms between member states. the report presented follow-up on erasmus + at all levels, and on training and education for people of all ages.
in writing. ‒ the i have approved the report submitted. education and training are important in helping people to acquire the knowledge and professional skills they need to become competitive and innovative workers. i believe that investments in early childhood education and care, when properly tailored to the sensitivity and maturity level of each target group, would yield a higher return than investments in any other stage of education. in addition, the proper implementation of the measures envisaged will prevent the outflow of highly qualified minds. particular attention shall be paid to the common system for the recognition of qualifications and diplomas. the success of education at all levels depends on the good training of teachers and their continuous pursuit of excellence in their field, so this strategic programme will also allow for sufficient investment in teacher training. it is also essential to involve parents' associations in the work of et 2020 and to promote the exchange of good practices in school-family cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the education and training should not become a mere means of meeting the needs of the labour market. it should be of value in itself: education is no less important for the formation of moral and civic values and, more broadly, humanistic values enshrined in the treaties, and for the strengthening of the democratic principles on which the european union is founded. the state of the cooperation in training and education report programme et 2020 is therefore important, first and foremost, as an insight into the europe of the future we want to see. i welcome the declaration that education should promote personal development, mutual respect and growth among young people and that education itself should be considered a basic human right and a public good accessible to all. at the same time, it is encouraging that the report emphasises the different experiences of the member states in this area, as well as the need for lifelong learning. the et 2020 programme itself can only be viewed positively. despite the fact that the education and training sector still faces major challenges in terms of quality, accessibility and discrimination on grounds of socioeconomic status, the report identifies key areas where member states can and should improve both the education and training processes themselves and cooperation between them.
in writing. i welcome the et 2020 review and stress the need to take its conclusions into account and implement them immediately in order to increase the added value of the programme and optimise its effectiveness by strengthening the country-specific aspects and mutual learning.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the need for a new approach to the development of renewable energy, making it a key pillar of the european energy model. if we are to develop our production model and create quality jobs, and if we are to foster the development of strategic technologies to underpin the new energy transition, we must reduce our dependence on the world's remaining energy resources. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be solved by market measures alone. it is necessary to recognise that democratic regulation and participation are essential to avoid serious external social and environmental impacts. energy oligopolies cannot be allowed to determine the future of europe's energy. regulation at eu level must address the many problems that hamper its development, promote public investment, democratic control and a stable investment system that facilitates collective and democratic energy governance, with a view to achieving a fully independent, efficient and clean energy model by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, thereby realising the 2015 paris agreement, depends on achieving eu climate and energy policy goals in the field of renewable energy. the report also highlights the fact that the current 2020 energy strategy and energy goals will be insufficient to reach the 2050 decarbonisation target, and it therefore calls on the commission to present a more ambitious climate and energy package for 2030, increasing the eu target for renewable energy sources to at least 30%, to be implemented by means of individual national targets.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because the development of renewable energy requires a new approach to make it a key pillar of the european energy model. the fight against climate change is undoubtedly one of the priorities for each of us - it is a historic duty we have to fulfil. it is necessary to create an enabling environment for the development of the renewable energy sector, which would encourage growth in a diverse and diversified sector, public investment, democratic control and a stable investment system that would facilitate collective and democratic energy governance. the huge job creation potential of the renewable energy sector also needs to be exploited. i believe that the commission should present a more ambitious 2030 climate change and energy package, with a renewable energy target of at least 30%. in addition, member states should implement energy efficiency policy measures more effectively and provide targeted social guarantees targeted at vulnerable consumers.
in writing. ‒ the the use of renewable energy sources is one of the eu's key indicators of progress towards a sustainable and future-oriented economy. the report presented by the commission welcomes the progress made by member states, or at least most of them, in switching from fossil fuels to local or renewable energy. at the same time, i think the commission could have emphasised in the report the importance of renewable energy for regional development. the switch to local fuels saves money that would otherwise be spent on imported fuels. moreover, renewable energy creates jobs and in many cases stimulates innovation. at the same time, i would like to highlight two important messages which the european parliament sends to the european commission and the member states in its resolution. first, reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to the development of renewable energy. this is particularly relevant for member states where the dominant large energy companies are not very enthusiastic about the possibility of incorporating green energy into the overall energy mix. second message many member states have already reached their renewable energy targets for 2020. and it wasn't hard to do, and in many cases, it paid off. so it's time to move to a more ambitious target, to a requirement to produce at least half of our energy from renewable sources.
in writing. i welcome the commission's commitment to renewable energy; in the light of the renewable energy directive, i believe that the current combination of mandatory national targets, national renewable energy plans and biennial controls has been a key driver in promoting renewable energy capacity in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency directive establishes a set of binding measures to help the eu reach its 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. greenhouse gas emissions in the eu fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. the eu is making large strides towards meeting the targets set and this is largely in thanks to the ets system. the complex reporting obligations and special national levies are a cause for concern and are largely impacted by separate national approaches to energy policy. a more coherent climate and energy policy is needed as well as an eu-wide electricity market design. the energy efficiency directive plays a major role in this and the eu will reach its 20% efficiency target for 2020 at this rate. this is a recent directive and the member states must be given time for the innovations to come to fruition. this report provides a necessary starting point to bring the energy saving aspects together and make a more coherent european wide policy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by parliament on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. parliament stressed that the european union was on the right track to meet the 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and improving energy efficiency. this is largely due to the success of the atlps system. it not only provides incentives to reduce emissions, but also encourages investment in energy-efficient technologies. it is recognised that the objectives have been achieved only partially, due to the economic and financial crisis in some countries. however, the reporting bureaucracy in the energy sector and the high costs for average industrial consumers and households are a concern. the price reduction effect of energy savings is offset by special government deductions and costly reporting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the commission called for additional efforts towards a coherent climate and energy policy and a europe-wide electricity market design. the implementation of the energy efficiency directive plays a major role here. it would demonstrate the power of the market. if businesses and citizens recognise that energy efficiency and energy saving are in their own interest, there is no need for european union regulation. at the same time, however, the directive provides further encouragement for significant innovations in relation to obligations and incentives in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. as you know, reducing energy consumption and eliminating energy losses are key eu objectives. efficient energy use is the basis of the transition to a resource-efficient economy. it should be stressed that energy resources, used rationally and economically, are of crucial importance in reducing the eu's dependence on energy imports, creating jobs, reducing energy poverty, ensuring comfort and health, boosting the economy and combating global warming. i think the commission should consider setting a mandatory target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030. it should be noted that the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is unsatisfactory, but provides a basis for energy saving, which not only helps to reduce costs but also contributes to the conservation of the planet's resources.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency remains another key challenge for europe's energy sector, alongside the transition to renewable energy sources. this is important for both the north and the south. it is good that the commission is taking this issue seriously, that it exists as a horizontal priority in many of the structural programmes and that the indicators set out in the energy efficiency directive are being progressively implemented. i very much welcome this report. i would also like to highlight a number of remaining problems. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states. difficulties due to a lack of both administrative capacity and financial support. in this place, i would invite the commission to take a more serious look at this problem, especially in the context of the implementation of the juncker plan. indeed, more efficient energy use, lower energy costs, especially for a country that is still largely dependent on fossil fuels and imported fuels, can have a huge spillover effect on the development of the whole economy. i also invite the commission to focus more on the promotion of energy efficiency and in the areas of the european union's external policy, particularly in relations with our eastern neighbours, where these issues are largely neglected.
in writing. welcomes new innovative and advanced solutions to match electricity supply and demand. notes that the commission is developing guidelines for the implementation of articles 9 to 11 of the energy efficiency directive in order to help consumers better control their energy consumption; considers that technical feasibility and the installation of smart meters with regard to cost efficiency and cost transparency are essential prerequisites for energy savings;
in writing. first of all, we must respect the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom and the european parliament must start negotiations with the united kingdom as soon as possible. the waiting and months of uncertainty can only lead to more instability and insecurity in the european union. the council is to endorse the commission as eu negotiator for the implementation of article 50 teu. the president of the commission shall, as a matter of urgency, allocate the portfolio of the uk commissioner. the treaty of lisbon needs to be fully implemented and revised. i believe that, in the negotiations following the triggering of article 50, it is particularly important to agree on the relationship between the withdrawing country and the european union. whether it's agreements like the ones in norway or switzerland, or trade barriers, or perhaps in the worst and least likely scenario, the united kingdom losing preferential access to the european union market, the free movement of capital and people will be restricted. it is clear that the decision taken will not only determine the commercial and financial relations between the united kingdom and the european union, but also the cost of leaving the eu, the direction and intensity of migration. the uk's decision also showed that we need to reflect on what led to the referendum result and how reforms could be made to increase european satisfaction and trust in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the uk referendum has taken many by surprise. this is undoubtedly a turning point in the future of the european union. even if we do not agree with the decision, we need to respect the will of the people of united kingdom and their democratic choice. i believe that the uk itself needs to respect its citizens will, come forward with its intentions and officially start the negotiations for leaving eu as soon as possible by invoking article 50. we need to end the lingering uncertainty and come forward with a new vision for european union. the remaining 27 member states do not have any other choice but to act together in the spirit of solidarity and seize this momentum to reform the european project to become a stronger and more capable union, giving more in return to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the united kingdom's decision to leave the eu following the referendum in the country. the eu must fully respect the expressed will of the uk citizens. i believe that negotiations on withdrawal from the eu under article 50 teu should start immediately after the formal notification in order to avoid uncertainty and uncertainty and to protect the integrity of the union. the council should appoint the commission as negotiator and the president of the commission should immediately appoint another person to the post of united kingdom commissioner. this situation has once again demonstrated the importance of reforming the union and making it better and more democratic. i agree that the need to promote our common values, to ensure stability, social justice and economic growth and to meet the challenge of migration requires the development of economic and monetary union and the area of freedom and justice, as well as the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it stresses that the will of the citizens of the united kingdom should be respected in a swift and consistent application of the withdrawal procedure. notes that negotiations on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu under article 50 teu are to be opened immediately following the formal notification; the european parliament recalls that no agreement on any new relationship between the united kingdom and the eu can be reached until a withdrawal agreement has been concluded. parliament called on the council to appoint the commission as negotiator on article 50 teu, on the president of the commission to appoint a new person as uk commissioner without delay and on the council to change the order of succession of the presidency of the united kingdom in order to prevent the withdrawal process from undermining the day-to-day management of the eu's operations. calls also for an action plan to build a better european union, taking full advantage of the lisbon treaty and complemented by a treaty review;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i support the procedure to invoke article 50 of the treaty starting as soon as possible. the uk people have decided and the uk government has to act accordingly. the uncertainty for the eu as well as for the uk and its nation should be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the the referendum is a serious weapon and an expression of the strong will of the people. the decision to consult the public was a wise and far-sighted political move. it is therefore vital that the wish of the citizens of the united kingdom to leave the eu is heard. the expressed will of the people must be fully and completely respected. i think the reaction to the referendum results is inadequate, as are the political decisions being designed. what more must be done to make the voice of the nations heard? the united kingdom must take the decision to open the withdrawal procedure independently. europe must be a union of equal states. the basic idea of the european community of states cannot be further undermined. it is necessary to convene a convention of all the european states which will outline the new guidelines of the european constitution and will be a new, genuine impulse towards the unity of the peoples on the road to a prosperous europe.
in writing. ‒ this plenary session is called to deal with a single issue which concerns not so much the internal affairs of the united kingdom as the future of the european union as a whole. there is much to be said about the fact that irresponsible british politicians have played with populist promises and now the eu as a whole will spend two years looking for a solution to this artificial problem instead of tackling topical, everyday, expertise-intensive and therefore populist-neglected issues such as the milk market crisis, agricultural policy or the future of cohesion policy in the new financial perspective. i am convinced that the resolution before us today conveys the most important message: the eu is a democratic community of free states, free from any restrictions on its members. if one member state decides to leave, it is the duty of all those who remain to ensure that the exit is as swift, smooth and uncomplicated as possible for all member states and, above all, for all citizens of the european union, in particular those eu citizens living in the united kingdom. our joint resolution does not answer the question: what will happen after the exit? how do we legitimize the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom, which is no longer a member of the eu? i'm pretty sure we shouldn't do that. let the british decide first of all how they see their future. and we, the members of the european parliament, will have to make the decision that is in the best interests of all eu citizens together with the council, even in response to the british proposal.
mr president, the commission recognises the link between trade, human rights and social and environmental standards. trade and foreign investments are indeed important tools in achieving economic growth, sustainable development and protection of human rights, which we expect from the commission and the council with regard to the implementation of the new trade strategy. at the multilateral level, the commission should take a leading role in the reform of wto governance. in particular, the wto should reform its trade policy review mechanisms in order to include social, environmental and human rights dimensions. it is important that the commission and the council both promote regular in-depth monitoring of the implementation of the human rights clauses in trade and association agreements. our parliament should also be more actively involved and consulted in this respect. clearly our trade policy should be a way to encourage eu partner countries to adopt higher social and environmental standards. on the other hand, eu companies abroad should comply with all their obligations, particularly with international standards in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i was really surprised by the european council's approach, its approach to brexit. the question that is central to europe today is not just about listening to information. does this mean that the decision of citizens of one community member to leave that community does not raise any questions and discussions for the leaders of other countries? dear ones, brexit did not start yesterday, it started when we lightly cut europe's christian roots in the european union's constitution, which has not yet come into force. and when european politicians in 2005 did not hear the voice of either the french or the dutch citizens, they rejected that constitution. it was replaced by the lisbon treaty with bureaucratic red tape. and then later on, the greek financial crisis, the migrant tsunami, and so on, but nothing was really done to make the british voice heard, to change the european union, to make it more democratic, to make all states equal, to make all voices heard, to make collective decisions remembered, to have nation states, because otherwise it would be bad. honey, the british didn't give up anything. they gave the european union a last chance to change its policy. from globalisation and federalisation to a europe of states and peoples free from globalisation and federalisation. who are we today if we are left behind by a country that lives by the oldest rules of western politics and the highest standards? to answer the fundamental question: what will the future of europe be: a union of equal states or a dictatorship in brussels? it is necessary to convene a convention of all european states, which will outline the new guidelines of the european constitution and will be a new real impetus for the unity of peoples on the road to a prosperous europe.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i'd like to ask you a question. i have spent seven years in this parliament observing the behaviour of the eurosceptics, and today i also have to say that they are very strangely disillusioned and confused. how do you think they really didn't understand and expect, or they just pretended that there are certain rules in the world that nobody just barges into their own market because it's extra jobs and stuff. and now they want to be friends with that bad europe, to communicate with it and sell their goods. how did you do that? what do you think, or did they really not understand?
today, the brexit camp is talking about the pressure being put on them, about the will of the british people being ignored. there is no such thing and there cannot be in this parliament. obviously the other british political leaders are under such pressure from their own citizens, i stress from the british citizens, that no leader dares to take responsibility for the outcome of the referendum and start brexit negotiations. there was no majority left in the british parliament to legitimize the referendum result and give the government a mandate to ask the european union to trigger article 50 of the treaty. i'm sure that with the british decision, we won't be divided into national cages. the challenge of patriotism is nationalism, the internal collapse of the european union, and it is nationalism that europe has already learned its lesson from. the best solution and our best response is a strong and united european union.
in writing. – brexit has created a political earthquake that has spread across europe. europe today needs to be reformed, with a new vision to be presented to its worried citizens, yet there is not enough recognition of this in the council. european citizens are not against the european union, they are tired and dissatisfied with the lack of action of the current european union. the european union currently gets caught up too much in the little things, whereas it needs to focus more on the big issues such as the migration crisis and terrorism. we must respect the decision of the british people and move forward and let britain figure out how to pull itself out of this crisis. the new british government must immediately activate article 50 and make clear the direction they plan to take. the remaining 27 eu countries need to look forward and move towards a stronger and more interconnected union that can offer more to its citizens.
in writing. the uk referendum has shocked europe. but if properly handled, such shock can have long-term benefits. european unity will not depend on loud theses about the need for further integration or on naive proposals to move towards a federal europe. we must respect the decision taken by the british, but we cannot in any way encourage their disengagement from europe as quickly as possible, as some senior officials have done carelessly. because we're cutting the branch we're sitting on. the latest meeting between the european commission and the european council decided to strengthen eu-nato cooperation in both continental security and missions outside europe. this is a serious positive step, as despite all the crises affecting europe, geopolitical and security issues remain paramount. first, we must understand that without the active participation of the united kingdom, this objective cannot be achieved. so, especially in the face of political chaos in london, we need to not blame the fence, but to reach out and find the best way for both sides to coexist after brexit. second, eu-nato cooperation must not become an increase in eu capabilities in the field of security. nato must remain the main security umbrella in europe, because only then will we be able to maintain the necessary close transatlantic link. the eu can and must play a greater role in expeditionary peacekeeping missions outside the continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver which was signed on 14 march 2016 in brussels. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the eu and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the agreement has also many other important aspects. this implementation of this agreement will bring closer the people of the eu and peru, it will boost tourism and increase trade and investment relations. the eu is already one of the main trade partners and foreign investors for peru. moreover, the agreement contains a joint declaration on cooperation on illegal immigration and will help peru to become an important partner for the eu in the fight against organised crime, including human and drug trafficking. respect for human rights and the values of democracy are indeed an essential element of eu-peru relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a visa-free regime agreement between the eu and the republic of peru. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is a complementary instrument aimed at strengthening economic and cultural links and promoting political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will help to strengthen regional cohesion, as peru is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still have to apply for a visa, and will be a rather important factor in bringing european peoples and peruvians closer together.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, in which the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement is the result of the development of relations between the eu and the republic of peru and is a complementary instrument aimed at strengthening economic and cultural links and promoting political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will help to strengthen regional cohesion, as peru is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still have to apply for a visa, and will be a rather important factor in bringing european peoples and peruvians closer together. as regards the political and institutional situation, the republic of peru is a country with a relatively stable democracy, as is the european union, which defends the principles and values of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and which remains a key partner of latin america in this field. human rights and democracy are key elements in the relations between the european union and this andean country. strengthening democracy and human rights remains one of peru's priorities, and the visa liberalisation agreement will help to continue a balanced, sustained and comprehensive political dialogue on human rights and specific issues such as the situation of women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the new visa regime provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens when travelling to the territory of peru and for citizens of peru when travelling to the eu, for a period of stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. in particular, this agreement will provide an opportunity to develop relations between the european union and the republic of peru and to strengthen economic and cultural links, as well as to foster political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is worth noting that peru is one of the few countries in latin america whose citizens are still subject to a visa regime, so this agreement will also be one of the factors that will help strengthen the cohesion of the region in order to facilitate the integration of individuals. the visa waiver agreement will promote tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment links. it is worth noting that the agreement includes a joint declaration on cooperation in the field of illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because back in october 2014 the european commission adopted a report which examined in detail peru's compliance with the criteria for granting visa-free travel to this country. in may 2015, in the light of the positive outcome of the evaluation, the council decided to authorise the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and peru. the agreement was signed in march 2016 and has been provisionally applied until now, pending its approval by the european parliament. the visa-free regime allows travellers to stay in the territory of a contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement will strengthen economic and cultural links between the eu and peru, promote political dialogue, tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment links.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment of the resolution of the european parliament and of the council on the visa waiver for peruvian citizens. the eu-peru agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas will have a positive impact on relations and strengthen political dialogue, especially in the important area of respect for human rights on the south american continent. the agreement will also promote tourism, which will have a positive impact on trade and bilateral investment. this is a very important aspect, since peru has one of the highest rates of economic growth in latin america. the eu is also peru's third largest trading partner, its main export market and its largest investor. the visa-free regime therefore brings great benefits to the european community.
in writing. ‒ the multiple-mode ignition engines (mems) are a diverse range of combustion engines installed in a wide range of machinery, from small hand-held devices, construction machinery and generating sets to cranes, locomotives and inland waterway vessels. these engines are increasing air pollution. the emission limit values for these engines are currently set in directive 97/68/ec, but they need to be amended. this proposal aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines installed in non-road mobile machinery. it also seeks to take into account aspects of competitiveness and compliance. in line with eu air quality policy, the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines placed on the market, while replacing older, more polluting engines over time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the emission limit values for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. the main objective of this report, as proposed by the commission, is to ensure the right balance between health and environmental issues and the competitiveness of the eu's manufacturing industry, jobs and practical experience. the health and safety of our citizens, especially those who work with the machinery covered by this proposal on a daily basis and are particularly affected by emissions, are the key issues of this proposal. in view of the competition aspects, the rapporteur considers that smes which create a large number of jobs may be vulnerable and should therefore be granted certain advantages. another important objective could be to ensure certainty of long-term planning and a stable regulatory environment for industry. in this respect, this new legislative instrument in the form of a regulation is clearly superior to a directive, which requires time to be transposed into national law, and therefore risks being interpreted differently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the regulation is very ambitious in terms of environmental protection and public health protection because non-road mobile machinery engines account for about 15% of all nox and 5% of particulate emissions in the eu.
in writing. i support the draft regulation submitted. it is essential to ensure the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the internal market. it is therefore essential that the eu applies transparent, simple and consistent rules that provide legal certainty and clarity, to the benefit of both businesses and consumers. in order to achieve sustainable reductions in engine emissions, direct cooperation between manufacturers and related companies and reliable research institutions needs to be continuously strengthened. such cooperation is important for the development of new products and technologies with a positive impact on air quality. it should be noted that in order to reduce the risk of market distortion and consequently the negative effects on health, it is necessary to harmonise the emission limit values for certain categories of engines. in addition, manufacturers must be able to fulfil their warranty obligations properly and to ensure that there is a sufficient number of such engines on the market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, even though it is not as ambitious as we would like. it should be noted that these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are responsible for approximately 15% of nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union. however, this report is a step forward in the fight against air pollution. i am glad that this report shows that air pollution is being looked at in a broader way. efforts are currently being made to reduce pollution in all sectors, including the non-road internal combustion engines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the eu labour market. the humanitarian crisis represented by the arrival of refugees constitutes one of the main challenges the european union has to face today. in 2015, a new european agenda on migration was adopted with the aim of addressing the difficult management of an unprecedented influx of people. in this regard, cooperation with third countries, humanitarian aid and development aid are some of the main tools available in addressing the root causes of migration (e.g. conflicts and poverty). this crisis has been made more complex by the high number of children, including unaccompanied children, who are involved. moreover, the crisis is occurring at a time of severe economic conditions in many eu countries, including high unemployment rates. the aim of the report is to outline the issues connected to the refugee crisis and to provide some proposals, recommendations and suggestions for achieving the objective of social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market of the eu.
in writing. ‒ with the great numbers of refugees arriving in europe, there is a tremendous need for an appropriate framework for their inclusion in the labour market. we should spare no effort to ensure their social, cultural and economic integration: those migrants who were forced to leave their homes usually suffer from physical and psychological trauma and must be helped. a sense of humanity is crucial and an appreciation of the hardships that migrants have to go through. secondly, with due regard to high rates of unemployment, refugees should be allowed to contribute to the process of reviving the labour market, and here they can be of great help. if refugees are properly trained and educated, demand and supply on europe’s labour market will be met. it is clear that the refugee inclusion process is vital for both migrants and their host countries, and therefore their integration must be properly effected and immediate.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market. i agree that the refugee crisis is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis of global proportions, but it is also a political crisis, and so policymakers need to take urgent decisive action and long-term measures that respond to the needs of society and the labour market. first, it is necessary to address the root causes of migration: conflict and poverty, through eu external policy instruments such as cooperation with third countries, humanitarian aid and development assistance. it is important to establish a common asylum system without delay in order to improve recognition procedures while ensuring the highest level of protection for refugees and eu citizens. i agree that allowing refugees to work would not only help restore their dignity, but would also be cost-effective - they would be self-sufficient, pay taxes and reduce the cost of refugee maintenance. i also support calls for language and vocational guidance courses for refugees. it is necessary to assess in advance, in a fair, transparent and free manner, the formal and informal skills of refugees and asylum seekers and to recognise and validate their qualifications.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines the situation of refugees and their integration into the labour market. managing the refugee crisis is one of the most important challenges facing the european union and its society today. this is not only a humanitarian crisis, but also a political crisis on a global scale. the new european agenda on migration was adopted to overcome the challenges of managing the flow of people arriving - this requires additional strengthening of border management, search and rescue operations, and the renewal of the common european asylum system. efforts are also needed to create the necessary conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and refugees into society. a holistic approach to migration requires that the eu's external policies address the root causes of migration and that internal policies are open and consistent. another set of factors that complicate the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees is related to the current macroeconomic situation in the european union. record levels of unemployment, poverty, fragmentation of the labour market and slow economic recovery suggest that these can become barriers to the integration and inclusion of refugees. a healthy labour market in the country of arrival is one of the key factors for successful and long-term integration of refugees, according to the data. in addition, reducing social or other support measures would have negative social and political consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the swift integration of refugees through their participation in the labour market and social inclusion will bring benefits for the refugees (economic independence and a sense of belonging and usefulness) and for society as a whole.
in writing. i do not support the motion for a resolution on the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market. it is worth noting that today, even without these things, almost 25% of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. about 10 percent of them suffer from severe material deprivation. nothing has been done to change the situation, and the question is what benefits the community countries should give to migrants in terms of employment. we should not create labour markets specifically for refugees. each newcomer must submit to the law and order of the particular country. member states shall not be obliged to facilitate the admission of refugee students to educational establishments at all levels or to organise additional classes in the language of the country of origin. it should be noted that a common compulsory asylum system will not solve the existing problems. we must abandon any policy of quotas. it was, is and will be the obvious catalyst for migration to europe. because that's how you send the signal that you're welcome here, you're taken care of.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the need to do more to integrate refugees into the labour market. the communication also sets out specific measures to be taken: the establishment of a language training system, better access to training, the speedier development of integration plans, etc. one of the most important tasks is the need to establish robust and transparent procedures for the recognition of qualifications acquired abroad, outside the european union. this would allow refugees to better exploit their existing skills in jobs where they already have some professional knowledge. at the same time, the report makes clear that refugees must not be discriminated against or exploited by employers, nor must they be treated worse than local residents. the report also mentions the need for specific efforts to integrate girls and women, in particular through access to formal and non-formal education and home. this would speed up the integration.
in writing. i emphasise the positive impact that refugee mobility should have in addressing labour demand and shortages, as well as the integration of refugees into the labour market, including aspects such as encouraging member states to allow family reunification; stress that further efforts are needed, including the development of social inclusion and active integration policies, to achieve a truly uniform common european asylum system and a comprehensive and sustainable legal migration policy in the european union, which responds to the demand for skills in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibilities. the report welcomes the commission decision to carry out ex ante and ex post sustainability impact assessments (sias) and declares that the human rights impact assessments (hrias) and the sustainability impact assessment should become binding. the report underlines the importance of human rights conditionality in trade agreements and of respect for, and implementation of, the human rights clauses. the commission and the council should promote regular in-depth monitoring of the implementation of the human rights clauses in trade and association agreements, which are also to include chapters on trade and sustainable development. parliament should also be involved at every stage and actively consulted during the drafting, negotiating and implementation of such agreements. the report underlines the importance of corporate social responsibility (csr) provisions. in this regard, the commission should be able to carry out investigations into alleged breaches of csr commitments. the eu should also actively engage with the un on an international treaty to hold transnational companies accountable for human rights abuses and the violation of the environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which supports the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. the eu has the potential to contribute constructively to the promotion of human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy. i support calls on the commission to ensure coordination of development aid and trade policy and to ensure that all stakeholders respect international standards in the areas of human rights, gender equality, labour law and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament endorses the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. parliament stressed the importance of trade and foreign investment and recalled that trade and foreign direct investment contribute to the welfare of poorer countries. it is recommended that the eu trade strategy be a tool for promoting democratic values in third countries. it advises member states to make greater efforts to fulfil their commitment to end fossil fuel subsidies and suggests that trade policy could make a greater contribution to the transition to a different energy consumption model. the problem of deforestation is also mentioned. the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to integrate a gender-sensitive approach into their policies and on the commission to take gender equality aspects into account in its evaluation of the eu trade strategy. calls on the eu and the member states to promote the use of mandatory measures to ensure that businesses pay taxes, and recognises that access to public goods such as water and health care are key aspects of a country's ability to guarantee human and social rights; the commission is proposed to take measures in the fields of trade and investment to encourage socially responsible enterprises by granting them special labels, making it easier to conclude eu public contracts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it insists that countries signing trade agreements with the eu must also ratify and implement the international labour organisation’s core labour conventions, as well as reasserting the need to maintain and strengthen the role of the ilo in international trade agreement negotiations. the report sends a strong message that the european parliament calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements
in writing. i have agreed to the report submitted. it is essential to ensure that international standards in the areas of human rights, gender equality, labour law and the environment are properly respected not only in the eu but also globally. it should be noted that these recommendations are one of the means of promoting democratic values in third countries. trade agreements and trade preference programmes are leverages for the promotion of human rights, the abolition of forced and child labour, food security and health rights, sustainable development and high standards of safety and environmental protection, as well as economic opportunities for all. their development should therefore be encouraged at all times. trade policy should certainly make a greater contribution to the transition to a different energy model, and eu trade measures should promote the use and development of renewable energy and the development of environmental goods and technologies in europe. in order to achieve sustainable economic and social development, the csr agenda needs to be tailored to the specific needs of regions and countries, as this will allow the objectives to be achieved more effectively and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides an overview of the progress made by the european commission since 2010, when the european parliament adopted recommendations on the interconnection between trade policy, human rights, the environment and social responsibility. the report highlights the failure of the european commission to implement the necessary policy reforms. so far, while it has been possible to do so, trade has not been fully exploited as a means of achieving the european union's objectives in the areas of environmental protection, human resources, and the implementation of the principle of social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of parliament's recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, because in our time trade and human rights should reinforce each other and prevent social exclusion. companies should be made more accountable for respecting labour rights, social justice and fundamental human rights. in this context, it is necessary to underline the importance of monitoring compliance with these rules. this should be one of the tasks of the eu institutions. for this reason, a decent work programme, tailored to the specific needs of regions and countries, needs to be implemented. it is clear that, for social policy to be an effective instrument for protecting workers' rights, it must be supported by the complementary eu action discussed in this report.
in writing. i welcome the inclusion of the human rights reporting requirement for large business enterprises in the eu non-financial reporting directive and call for its immediate implementation. i call on eu member states to transpose this directive into national law swiftly and effectively; draw attention to the un's core principles for reporting, the human rights criteria for companies and the purpose of 'integrated reporting' and i call on all eu listed companies and their stakeholders to respect the spirit of the directive when trading within the eu and outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment. eu public opinion has become increasingly interested in international trade due to the negotiation of agreements such as ttip, ceta and tisa. international trade is an essential element for the eu economy. on 14 october 2015, the commission published an ambitious trade and investment strategy entitled ‘trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy’. the report focuses on some essential elements such as the importance of global value chains, the trade in digital goods and services, the strengthening of sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability. it underlines the need for more transparency in trade negotiations and for the modernisation of trade defence instruments, especially as china is firmly requesting the granting of market economy status (mes).
in writing. ‒ if we want europe to become a strong global player in the future it is crucial that the european economy becomes more influential on the global scale. therefore, this report combines several aspects, namely, lowering of the unemployment rate and encouraging growth of jobs is coupled with focusing on human rights, efficient development and good governance. the commission is working hard on incorporation and mainstreaming of human and labour rights, environmental and development issues into all trade agreements. i believe that in this fast-moving world it is crucial to facilitate growth based on a set of common standards for trade and investment. policy makers need to ensure that economic growth is not only sustainable but responsible towards the broader population and our environment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy on trade and investment. today, the eu has the richest economy in the world. the eu's economic importance will decline: by 2050, the 28 eu member states will only generate 15% of global gdp, compared to 23.7% in 2013. the centre of prosperity is moving eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic change will also have a negative impact on the eu's position in the world trade arena. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is therefore of great importance to the european union. on 14 october 2015, the commission proposed a new trade and investment strategy for the european union trade for all. developing a more responsible trade and investment policy. i agree that it is regrettable that the strategy does not give much importance to the manufacturing sector and to the trade challenges associated with tackling migration. it is important that trade policy in the 21st century responds to the concerns of people. more transparency, participation and accountability for all stakeholders are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament endorses the commission's forward-looking and innovative strategy for the future of trade and investment. today, the european union has the richest economy in the world, but its economic importance will decline in the future. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is therefore of great importance to the european union. in 2015, the commission proposed a new trade and investment strategy for the european union trade for all. developing a more responsible trade and investment policy. the commission adopted a new trade and investment strategy a forward-looking, innovative future trade and investment strategy that takes account of the new challenges facing the eu. in this strategy, the commission sets out a clear objective to accelerate trade liberalisation and further integrate the european union into global value chains. in view of the external challenges facing the eu, one of the priorities is to reconcile the eu's trade objectives with other aspects of its external policy. we need to design our trade and investment agreements so that they are effective tools for strengthening sustainable development worldwide, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and promoting environmental sustainability. the commission must constantly update its trade strategy in the face of rapid changes in the global trading environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. as the attention of the public to trade agreements has increased and more citizens are worried with regard to globalisation, it is important that trade policy in the 21st century needs to respond to people’s concerns. we need more transparency, engagement and accountability towards all stakeholders involved. additionally, the access to certain information strengthens parliamentary scrutiny and the report therefore calls on the commission to extend the transparency initiative to all future negotiations as well as calling on the council to publish all negotiating mandates.
in writing. i agree with the report. an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is of great importance to the european union. it is essential that trade policy in the 21st century responds to the concerns of people, while also taking into account the rapidly changing global trading landscape. more transparency, participation and accountability for all stakeholders are needed. the european union will be further integrated into global value chains by extending the transparency policy to all future negotiations and accelerating trade liberalisation. it is essential for a more transparent trade policy to give citizens the opportunity to express their will in a proper way. i believe that the current eu trade defence system needs to be updated to provide an appropriate response to unfair practices that harm international trade in a globalised world.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on a 'new and forward-looking and innovative strategy for the future of trade and investment'. it must be admitted that this report does not propose anything new or innovative. in essence, the text of the report proposes to continue what has been done in the past, despite growing scepticism and public resistance to the liberalisation of the labour market. in the communication, neither the commission nor the rapporteur presents any real steps towards a reform of trade policy. however, there are also important references - one of them is the call to the commission to create sustainable and responsible trade. it also stresses the importance of including a sustainable development chapter in trade agreements, which would allow for the application of high social and environmental standards throughout the supply chain.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the commission has announced a number of initiatives to support fair trade and encourage the commission to continue to propose such measures under the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings. the trafficking of human beings is a modern kind of slavery and a serious crime which constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations. trafficking in human beings represents a highly lucrative business, therefore it is important to fight against the corruption which facilitates it. the eu and its member states shall increase cooperation with third countries and improve the exchange of information with the aim of investigating and combating transnational trafficking. at eu level, the report recognises and supports the work of the eu anti-trafficking coordinator, established to improve coordination and coherence among the eu institutions, agencies and member states and third countries and international bodies, and urges the coordinator to further develop concrete joint action and measures by all these protagonists.
in writing. ‒ cooperation and coordination between member states is crucial in the fight against human trafficking, and this report is an important step in that direction. the report urges the eu and the member states to deal intensively with the crime of human trafficking. this growing illicit industry of human suffering affects all societies in a profound and enduring manner. the trafficking of human beings is a transnational issue of global nature that is a modern form of slavery. to combat this, we need measures that fight the issue at the root causes and global trends. the eu and member states should take necessary efforts to combat forced labour in eu industries abroad, particularly in third countries. international cooperation is crucial in the case of trafficking in human beings, where there is currently an insufficient level of cooperation. the eu anti-trafficking coordinator needs further coordination, joint action, and coherence among the eu institutions, agencies, member states, third countries, and international actors. this report is a great step in the fight against all forms of human trafficking, however, the eu should develop a new post-2016 anti-trafficking strategy with a stronger and more targeted external dimension.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this motion on the fight against human trafficking. trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious human rights violations, as it involves the commoditisation of human beings, is a fundamental and persistent violation of the dignity and rights of victims, and affects entire families and communities. the ilo estimates that illicit annual profits from forced labour, including money laundering, amount to approximately usd 150 billion, with 90% of victims estimated to be exploited in the private sector and two thirds of profits derived from commercial sexual exploitation. i support calls on the commission to assess the use of the internet for trafficking in human beings, in particular sexual exploitation via the internet. it is important that europol step up the fight against trafficking in human beings online. i support calls on the commission and the member states to also extend the definition of trafficking in human beings to include references to new forms of trafficking in human beings by strengthening legal instruments to combat trafficking in human beings. it is also important to review the mandate of the future european public prosecutor's office so that it is empowered to fight against trafficking in human beings once it is established.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to combat trafficking in human beings by maintaining the european union's external relations. in this report, the european parliament underlines that trafficking in human beings is a form of modern slavery and a serious crime, and recognises that trafficking in human beings takes place both across external and internal borders, which requires strong domestic laws to combat trafficking in human beings and cooperation between countries. the european parliament condemns the fact that trafficking in human beings is a highly profitable business and that a large part of the proceeds of this criminal activity is reinvested in the global economy and financial system. it is emphasized that trafficking in human beings includes sexual exploitation, prostitution, organ trafficking, forced surrogacy and other cases. forced marriage can also be considered a form of trafficking. it is noted that children and persons with disabilities are considered to be the most vulnerable to trafficking. it therefore calls for a strong focus on these groups of people and for the strengthening of national childcare systems in europe or further efforts to combat the phenomenon of child soldiers. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. member states should do more to protect victims of human trafficking, especially women who make up 80% of trafficked persons, yet their specific needs are not being taken into account. eu legislation meant to protect victims of trafficking is not being properly implemented. trafficked people must be treated as victims, not criminals, and given enough support to recover and return to a normal life.
in writing. i agree with the report. trafficking in human beings is a form of modern slavery and a serious crime, which constitutes one of the most serious violations of human rights and cannot be tolerated by societies based on respect for human rights, including gender equality. it should be noted that one of the main obstacles to combating trafficking in human beings is the inadequate implementation of the legal framework related to trafficking in human beings at national level and the lack of a corresponding legal framework in third countries. it is worth noting that trafficking in human beings is a highly profitable illegal activity, and that a large part of the proceeds of this criminal activity is reinvested in the global economy and financial system. this organised crime is carried out both across external and internal borders, and requires strong domestic laws to combat trafficking in human beings and cooperation between countries. it is necessary to make the fight against trafficking in human beings more visible to society. i believe that it is essential to improve and intensify the identification of children who are victims of trafficking in human beings, in particular at border crossing points and reception centres, in the case of unaccompanied minors, and to strengthen interdisciplinary cooperation to ensure effective protection of the interests of children.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this important report, which condemns human trafficking. despite the criminalization of trafficking in human beings, many countries continue to lack adequate legislation to effectively combat this form of modern slavery. the report notes that according to a press release by the head of europol's staff department, more than 10 000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children have disappeared in europe. and these are incredible numbers, knowing that children could have been involved in the market for sexual services or illegal organ transplants. the european union could help to address the problem, at least in part, by sharing information with third countries in the development of a standardised system for collecting and analysing data on trafficking in human beings. it is also necessary to establish effective networks of cooperation between law enforcement authorities, both within the eu and at global level, which could help to detect and prevent illegal activities.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report by mep b. lochbihler, because human trafficking is a reprehensible element in the world of organised crime. it is one of the worst violations of human rights, because people are treated as commodities, their dignity is violated, and it has negative effects on society and families. the european union must play a more active role in combating these criminal activities, especially when they target children and women. this issue should be the subject of a consensus among all policymakers, as trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery that is unacceptable. the agreement reached must be applied on all continents. the eu should therefore strongly encourage third countries to ratify and implement the council of europe convention on this issue. only a comprehensive approach based on international law will make it possible to combat one of the worst crimes in the world more effectively.
in writing. human trafficking is a form of modern slavery and a serious crime, which constitutes one of the most serious human rights violations, and cannot be tolerated by societies based on respect for human rights; i also believe that trafficking in human beings must be viewed holistically, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced prostitution, forced marriages, child soldiers and trafficking in children.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who really put in an enormous effort to get this done, especially my learned colleague, vicky ford, who was simply wonderful in this whole negotiation. this directive is a very important step forward. a lot of parliaments are waiting on it and ready to implement it. i am hoping that it will improve cyber security and network and information systems in europe. it is obviously not perfect, but it is the best that we could do under those trying circumstances. cyber security is essential in today’s european digital economy and society. when people and businesses use and make the most of connected digital services they need to feel that they are safe and secure. so we did achieve a very important step forward for that. the internet knows no borders. a problem in one country can have a knock—on effect in the rest of europe. i hope that member states will soon acknowledge that cooperation and information exchange between each other is a key element that will help us tackle the increasing number of cyber-attacks. i would like to congratulate the commission on a new public-private partnership agreement on cyber security. that is also a very important step forward. we need investment in this area – a lot of investment, multiply it – but it is a very important step. keep going. let us all work together and keep moving europe forward.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have come here today to listen to parliament’s views on the commission work programme for next year. now, we are just before the time when parliament needs to vote, so that is why the chamber is filling up, and it is quite a sight to see all of you here. i mention this because, all too often in the last couple of months, something seems to have been forgotten, and that is that 751 europeans have been elected to directly represent citizens from 28 different nations in all their diversity, with all their differences and their different outlooks and lives: you all come together here in this chamber to look for majorities to take decisions. that is the essence of representative democracy: that you decide by majority, just as the british people have decided by majority to leave the european union. that decision needs to be respected. but, likewise, those who only shouted during the years they were here in this parliament should have had more respect for the majority in this parliament, whose decisions are just as legitimised by the voters who went to vote for them. and please, i call on all of you, now that i have the opportunity to speak to so many of you, do not let your democratic mandate be ridiculed or diminished. stand up for it. you are the representatives of more than 500 million people. be proud of it, stand up for it and do not let those people tell you do not represent the people. (loud applause)as for those of you out there who have asked for the head of jean-claude juncker: that is politically weak, morally questionable, intellectually lazy ... (heckling)is that all you have offer? destroy for the sake of destruction rather than build something for your citizens? (loud applause)if there is one man in our european institutions who has listened very carefully to the majority in this parliament, who has tuned and changed his propositions and his priorities on the basis of a majority in this parliament, it is jean-claude juncker, and he deserves the respect of this parliament and others for this attitude, which is entirely and fundamentally democratic at european level. i repeat: our people, the people you represent, are worried about the future, are concerned about those who represent them, are anxious. if it were only the european institutions they were challenging, that would be wonderful. we could get rid of the institutions and everything would be okay. (interjection from the floor: ‘hear hear!’) but look at what has happened, ‘hear hear!’ look at what is happening now in the uk. look at what is happening to the pound and your economy. are you happy with that? i would not be happy with that, looking back on it. (loud applause)what we have seen is that political choices have real consequences for real people. these are not games we are playing. as politicians you have responsibility. face up to them. do not run away when you are scared of the consequences of your actions. (loud applause)and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what distinguishes jean-claude juncker fundamentally from people like farage and others. when things get tough, he starts working. he puts his back into it. he does not run away. that is the difference between him and you, sir. so yes, we will focus and reorient our work programme on the basis of what a majority in this parliament tells us to do, not on account of those who, because they are too weak to find majorities in a democratic way, always referred to a mythical ‘people’. let democracy work. get the votes. and shouting at me will not make your position stronger. let me end on this, ladies and gentlemen: never be intimidated by big mouths. never be intimidated by insults. listen carefully to the real concerns of our voters. they are not happy with us. we need to change our ways. we need to do better, but walking away is not the answer. providing concrete solutions for concrete problems is the answer, and the commission is your partner to make this happen this year and next year. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
in writing. i wonder if we have learned anything from brexit? the overall text of the motion for a resolution is indeed hopeful. first, the text unequivocally acknowledges that errors have been made in responding to the real needs of citizens and that the prolonged crisis has led a significant proportion of citizens to question the democratic institutions of the european union. the resolution also stresses the need to step up the energy union, to meet the paris climate change targets and to create sustainable jobs. i could go on and on about the big words, but what's behind them? where are the realistic proposals, the clear measures? there's not a lot of them to be found. most people would agree that the devil is in the details. and that's exactly what we're trying to avoid here. because then there would be disagreement even between those who believe in the european union and its future. so on the one hand, the resolution on the european commission's 2017 programme can be seen as a step forward. on the other hand, it is always worth asking whether this step is sufficient.
in writing. i have some specific questions about the commission's work programme for the coming year: firstly, the commission issued recommendations to member states in may, in which it highlighted that member states are not implementing the 2013 recommendation on investing in children, and child poverty is only growing further, with some 27 million children now living in poverty in europe. this is just another example of the failure of member states to tackle child poverty. does the commission not therefore consider that it is necessary to create a specific instrument with a budget for this purpose, namely the child guarantee, under which every child can receive free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition? the majority of the european parliament has already accepted in its report that such a guarantee is necessary because one member state is failing to tackle child poverty. i therefore strongly hope that the commission will commit itself to tackling child poverty with concrete measures in the 2017 programme. secondly, the council made recommendations a few weeks ago that all necessary measures should be taken to ensure that workers (both men and women) have a good balance between work, personal and family life. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the union law.
madam president, i have a point of order. there is a risk in taking this decision as a technical one. there is no technical decision on this issue. belarus is about to build an unsafe nuclear power installation and these credits might go in this direction. secondly, president lukashenko did nothing to secure fair and free elections. this house cannot be neutral on human rights in belarus. i call on you to support this decision and come back after the elections. (applause)
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. since december 2006, the european commission has envisaged the possibility of participation for enp countries in selected eu programmes and agencies as a measure to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the neighbourhood. azerbaijan expressed its interest in october 2012. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. this country is not only an important energy partner for the union; thus, rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy remain the core principles on which relations of the eu with third countries are built. the conclusion of such a protocol will offer the opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific link between the eu and azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-azerbaijan framework agreement. the purpose of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each individual programme will be laid down in a subsequent agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. as early as 2006, the commission indicated that the european neighbourhood should be gradually opened up to participation in certain union programmes and incorporated such opening up into the european neighbourhood policy (enp). in 2007, the council endorsed such a strategy and instructed the commission to open negotiations with partner countries on framework agreements to facilitate such participation. this strategy was endorsed in the 2011 epc review and is one of the pillars of the eastern partnership aimed at improving bilateral cooperation. in october 2012, azerbaijan expressed its wish to participate in union programmes. armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine have already concluded such protocols.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation because it gives the european parliament its support for the protocol, which aims to establish financial and technical rules enabling the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. in october 2012, azerbaijan expressed its wish to participate in eu programmes. in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy. however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy. in recent months, parliament has expressed concern at the increasing difficulties faced by civil society actors and organisations. the rule of law, human rights and democracy are the fundamental principles on which the eu's relations with third countries should be based. the general agreement in question thus aims to promote sectoral cooperation and to foster people-to-people relations, as this should be in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the objective of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each particular programme will be then determined in agreement between the commission and the competent authorities in azerbaijan.
in writing. i agree to this protocol. the rule of law, human rights and democracy are the fundamental principles on which the eu's relations with third countries should be based. the purpose of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. it should be noted that armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine have already concluded such protocols. it should be noted that azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy. however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy. it is therefore essential to ensure that cooperation between different sectors and people-to-people relations are more actively promoted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sends a clear signal that europe is ready to cooperate with the azerbaijani authorities, but expects clear steps in respecting human rights, in implementing reforms in the legal system and in other areas. the participation of azerbaijan in certain european programmes is not granted free of charge. it must be admitted that this recommendation could have been adopted last year. however, it was delayed because of the repeated violations of human rights in the country. however, the release of political prisoners leyla yunus, rasul jafarov and khadija ismaylova gave grounds to revert to this recommendation.
in writing. azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy. however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for draft amending budget no 2/2016: inclusion of surplus for the financial year 2015. it aims to transfer to the 2016 budget the surplus of eur 1 349 million for the financial year 2015. the main elements of this surplus are an excess of revenue of eur 980 million, an amount of eur 187 million not used for expenditure and an income from exchange rate differences of eur 182 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it draws the attention of the european parliament to draft amending budget no 2/2016 submitted by the commission, which is intended solely to bring the surplus of eur 1 349 million for 2015 into the budget in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation and the council's position on this draft amending budget. parliament notes that the adoption of the draft amending budget will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states to the budget of the european union by eur 1 349 million in 2016. the commission notes that the member states contributed eur 82 million and eur 69 million to the funds in spring 2016, while the eu contribution was eur 1,8 billion and over eur 500 million respectively. parliament called for the possibility to use the eu budget surpluses resulting from under-utilisation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings for infringements of eu competition law to meet financial needs, in particular in view of the problem of the lack of payment appropriations, instead of adjusting the gnp-based contributions.
in writing. the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states to the union budget by eur 1 349 million in 2016. in this context, member states will be given a favourable opportunity to use this repayment to fulfil their obligations in relation to the refugee crisis and to align their contributions with those of the union to the two dedicated union trust funds. i would like to draw particular attention to the importance of making it possible to use appropriately the surpluses in the union budget resulting from the under-utilisation of appropriations or from fines imposed on undertakings for infringements of union competition law in order to meet financial needs, in particular in view of the problem of the lack of payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report which amends the 2016 budget. the surplus for the financial year 2015 amounted to eur 1 349 million. the amount thus reduced will reduce the member states' contributions to the union budget in 2016. the notification invites member states to use the facility to meet their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to align their contributions with those of the union to the two dedicated union trust funds accordingly.
in writing. calls on the member states to use the repayment facility to meet their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to align their contributions with those of the union to the two special union trust funds accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report concerning the measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the union. today we have endorsed legislation that will impose security and reporting obligations on service operators in industries such as banking, energy, transport and health and on digital operators like search engines and online marketplaces. the commission proposal introduces obligations for network and information security (nis), in order to create a level playing field and close existing legislative loopholes among eu member states. digital services providers (dsps), as in cloud computing providers, search engines and online market places, will be subject to simplified procedures concerning security requirements. in case of non-compliance by operators or dsps penalties will have to be foreseen in national law. with respect to member states’ obligations, a cooperation group for strategic coordination and a csirt (computer security incident response teams) network for operational cooperation will be established. these rules should help to prevent cyber-attacks on europe’s most important interconnected infrastructures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this bill to increase cyber resilience. new eu rules require companies in energy, transport, banking, healthcare or other critical sectors to strengthen the resilience of their information systems to cyberattacks. each eu country will have to develop a cybersecurity strategy and appoint an authority responsible for the security of information systems. the eu's network and information security directive aims to increase cooperation between eu countries in the field of cybersecurity and reduce the existing fragmentation. the rules set out the sectors in which companies providing essential services, such as those responsible for electricity or gas supply, air traffic control or financial services, will have to ensure the security of their information systems and report cyber-attacks to the authorities responsible.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which deals with the commission's proposal for a directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems throughout the european union. the objective of the proposed directive is to ensure a high overall level of network and information security (nis). this means enhancing the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our societies and economies. this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their preparedness and enhance cooperation with each other, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructure such as energy and transport, and key information society services (e.g. trading platforms, social networks, etc.), as well as public administrations to take appropriate action to manage security risks and to inform the national competent authorities of serious incidents. this commission proposal is presented in conjunction with the joint communication from the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on a european cybersecurity strategy. the aim of the strategy is to ensure a safe and secure digital environment, while upholding and protecting fundamental rights and other core eu values. this proposal is a key part of the strategy. the future strategy will focus on raising awareness, developing cybersecurity products and services, and promoting investment in research and technological development. these actions will be complemented by other actions to promote the fight against cybercrime and to shape the eu's international cybersecurity policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the aim of the proposed directive is to ensure a high common level of network and information security (nis). this means improving the security of the internet and the private networks and information systems underpinning the functioning of our societies and economies. this will be achieved by requiring the member states to increase their preparedness and improve their cooperation with each other, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructures, such as energy, transport, and key providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.), as well as public administrations to adopt appropriate steps to manage security risks and report serious incidents to the national competent authorities.
in writing. i support the report presented, as it is necessary to increase the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our society and economy. it should be noted that information systems may be affected by security incidents such as human error, natural phenomena, technical failures or malicious attacks. these incidents are becoming larger, more frequent and more complex. in addition to being a means of communication without borders, digital information systems are interconnected in all member states and play a crucial role in facilitating the movement of goods, services and persons between countries. a major disruption of these systems in one member state can have repercussions in other member states and across the eu. the resilience and stability of network and information systems are therefore crucial for the implementation of the digital single market and the smooth functioning of the internal market. at present, there is insufficient protection against cis incidents and risks at eu level. existing measures are simply not sufficient to ensure a high overall level of protection in all member states. this may lead to barriers to the internal market, which may result in compliance costs for undertakings operating in more than one member state. effective management of the security of network and information systems requires a global approach at union level, including common minimum requirements for capacity building and planning, information exchange and coordination of actions, and common minimum security requirements for all relevant market participants and public administrations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation. it is mainly related to the intensification of cyber-attacks. as far back as 2012, a eurobarometer survey revealed that 38% of eu internet users are concerned about the security of online payment systems. in addition, the european commission's public consultation showed that 57% of respondents had experienced attacks on information systems during the year that had seriously affected their business. admittedly, solutions to counter this type of attack are still being sought. this document is just one of the attempts to take the first steps towards a common level of security for eu networks and information systems. despite the importance of this directive, experts acknowledge that the provisions contained in it are unlikely to reduce the number of cyber-attacks or to contribute to genuine security.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at more explicit labelling of energy efficiency. the new rules propose to abandon the misleading a+, a++ or a+++ labelling within five years and replace it with a scale from a to g. most appliances currently meet the highest energy efficiency class a and manufacturers tend to break it down into smaller categories and add advantages such as a+, a++ or a+++ in order to achieve product excellence. this may mislead consumers who expect to buy the most economical device when buying a product in category a. i agree that the product label should be clear and legible, indicating the energy efficiency class and the kilowatt consumption of the appliance. this would allow consumers to make an informed decision before purchasing the desired appliance and contribute to energy savings.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's amendments to the energy efficiency labelling rules, with the aim of abandoning the misleading a+, a++ or a+++ labelling within five years and replacing it with the ag scale. in its report, the parliament notes that most appliances currently meet the highest energy efficiency class a and that, in order to achieve product exclusivity, manufacturers tend to break it down into smaller categories and add bonuses such as a+, a++ or a+++. this may mislead consumers who expect to buy the most economical device when buying a product in category a. the european parliament proposes to return to the ag energy efficiency scale within five years and to reflect this on product labels. they should also indicate the energy consumption of the product in kilowatt hours. in addition, consumers must have the right to return the product to the trader and receive a refund if it is found that the product does not meet the requirements, meps believe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the revision aims to ensure that consumers make better-informed purchase decisions of energy-efficient products, and thereby reduce energy consumption and associated energy bills (as well as other major environmental impacts of products). the proposed regulation would restore the a-g scale for energy labelling, create a mechanism for rescaling products that can accommodate further improvements in energy efficiency, establish a product database on energy efficiency, and introduce a safeguard procedure to improve national market surveillance.
in writing. i agree with the report. energy labelling is environmentally beneficial because it allows consumers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally sound choices. it is therefore essential that a clearer and simpler product information management and labelling system is applied in the eu to ensure consistency and continuity. it is also essential that consumers are provided with more information when choosing a product, which will help them save energy and money. it should be noted that the eu will not be able to function properly as a single market without the common digital database of new energy-saving products that the us, australia and other countries have developed over the past few years. this would allow citizens to play a key role in the eu's transition to a new energy system, as well as facilitate access to information, enhance the ability to monitor market developments in real time and increase the effectiveness of safeguards. by acting as a platform to which 100% of the information relevant to consumers is transferred, updated and freely accessible, the product database will contribute significantly to consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to finally create a uniform and clear eu energy labelling system for products. the purpose of this document is to simplify the system so that it is understandable to consumers. the aim is to abolish the current common designations such as a+ or a++, etc., and to introduce different colours and letters from a to g. it is only regrettable that the majority of the european parliament decided that this reform should be postponed. this allows manufacturers to continue to use a system that is difficult for many europeans to understand.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because the new regulation sets out the framework for energy efficiency labelling and at the same time replaces the pre-accession directive which came into force six years ago. the dynamic development of the energy sector, and in particular the considerable technical progress in the field of energy-saving products, also requires an appropriate response from parliament and the adaptation of the provisions to the current situation. the directive seems to be the appropriate legal instrument to achieve a clear and comprehensive harmonisation of energy standards across the eu. this is particularly important for customers who will be able to make the best-informed purchasing decisions thanks to standardised energy efficiency labelling. it will also eliminate abuses by producers. such decisions to protect consumers deserve support.
in writing. since its introduction, labelling has helped citizens to better understand the environmental impact and life cycle of products. the evaluation of directive 2010/30/ec has shown that there are shortcomings which, if addressed, could lead to significant additional energy savings. the current review also aims to facilitate the integration of upcoming ict innovations such as the internet of things and others.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report concerning the european border and coast guard. the schengen area as an area of 26 countries without internal border control in which persons may move freely is rightly considered by many as among the biggest and most visible achievements of european integration. however, this area is challenged by the reintroduction of border controls as a reaction to the secondary movements of irregular migrants. last december, the european commission presented its proposal on the european border and coast guard (ebcg). this proposal has many innovative elements such as the establishment of a vulnerability assessment, the deployment of liaison officers to member states, and the setting up of a rapid reaction pool of 1500 border guards. the creation of the european border and coast guard can ensure a european integrated border management at the external borders of the eu by managing efficiently the crossing of the external borders, by contributing to addressing serious crimes with a cross-border dimension and by ensuring a high level of internal security within the union, while safeguarding the free movement of persons therein.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a european border and coast guard (ebcg) addresses the need for proper control of the schengen external border in order to ensure the high level of security, at the same time protecting the free movement of people within the eu. this concept of the ebcg is a step in the right direction in improving the current border guard frontex and introducing a system of an integrated border management. the proposal foresees a much stronger role of the agency in the field of return, the strengthening of its capacity (staff, budget, equipment), increased cooperation with third countries, and the establishment of a european cooperation on coast guard functions. i voted for this report as it will enhance the solidarity between the member states, reinforce integration regarding border management and contribute to preventing crisis situations at the external border. without internal borders, the external borders of the schengen area should be a shared responsibility among all member states. this proposal should fix the previous weaknesses of the external border and allow a return to the schengen area without internal border controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to establish a european border and coast guard agency. it will be composed of representatives of frontex and national border protection authorities, who can provide emergency border assistance, for example, if a country is experiencing high migratory pressure or is threatened by the schengen area. the new agency will be supported by a pool of national border experts, which can be activated at the request of an eu country or by a decision of the eu council. the implementation plan for this decision shall be approved by the eu state concerned and by the agency itself before the agency's teams are deployed. if an eu country facing migratory pressure does not agree to the eu council's decision to send the teams of the said services to its territory and this threatens the schengen area, other eu countries will be able to resume border checks with that country.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament sets out its position on the commission's proposal for a regulation establishing a european border and coast guard agency. in recent years, the european union has been under enormous pressure at its external borders, as the massive mixed migration flows across the eu's external borders, followed by intensive secondary movements, have shown that the existing structures at eu and member state level are not adequate to deal with the challenges posed by such large influxes. it is therefore necessary to ensure european integrated border management at the external borders of the eu in order to manage migration effectively and to ensure a high level of security in the eu while maintaining the free movement of persons within it. in addition, this regulation extends the competences of frontex, the external border protection agency of the eu member states, and renames frontex as the european border and coast guard agency. the main tasks of the european border and coast guard agency are to develop an operational and technical strategy for the implementation of integrated border management at eu level, to monitor the effectiveness of border control at the external borders of the member states, to carry out vulnerability assessments and to ensure that national authorities address any deficiencies in external border management, and so on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu needs a real common border and coast guard system for our common european borders, otherwise schengen will remain under pressure. the refugee crisis needs common european solutions and common border management is a key element to put a stop to the chaos at our borders. although this proposal is only a first step towards fully fledged european border management, it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. given the current situation, it is essential to improve the cooperation and coordination of activities between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase the synergy of their respective services, in order to provide national authorities with coastal functions with more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services. however, the new regulation must not in any way infringe the sovereignty of the member states. the activities of the agency shall be duly aligned with the national interests of the member states before any action is taken. no decisions may be taken unilaterally without the consent of the member state concerned. it is essential to ensure that the agency's operational plan is not implemented without the approval of the state concerned. it should also be empowered to issue instructions to the teams in all cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, in which the european parliament sets out its position on the establishment of a european border and coast guard agency. i think it is clear that europe's borders must be protected. the influx of migrants has revealed europe's vulnerability and the inability of member states to respond effectively and quickly to such challenges. on the other hand, the final test has become much weaker following the negotiations with the council. more importantly, this document states that member states will in principle not be able to refuse the agency's services even if they so wish, as otherwise it may be threatened with the return of border checks, even if the country is part of the schengen area. the agency is also authorised to operate in third countries, but it is not specified how legal problems related to such activities will be avoided.
in writing. while the newly defined areas of competence represent a major step forward, they should be seen as the first steps towards a fully independent, integrated, eu-led, eu-wide border and coast guard force, funded by the eu budget and with operational autonomy. when this regulation is finally adopted, member states and all eu institutions should give a clear political commitment to do so.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal concerning the european maritime safety agency. the purpose of this proposal reinforcing european co-operation on coastguard functions is to improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies in order to enhance synergies between their respective services, thus allowing them to provide more efficient and cost-effective multipurpose services to national authorities carrying out coastguard functions. the main tasks of the european maritime safety agency will be the following: to provide valuable information in order to improve surveillance of the external borders of the european union; to collect all relevant maritime data on human activity at sea in one place, offering a “one-stop shop” solution which feeds other authorities at national and eu level with this data; as well as to increase the collective skills and capacity for coastguard functions and to assist them to collaborate and act jointly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to develop european cooperation in the exercise of coast guard functions: to this end, it is envisaged to develop a multi-faceted cooperation between the european border and coast guard agency, emsa and eeas in order to improve the synergies between the activities of these agencies in order to provide national authorities with more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services for their coast guard functions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the commission's proposal for a regulation to establish a european maritime safety agency. there are currently over 300 civil and military authorities in the member states, which carry out coast guard functions in the fields of safety of navigation, security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection. in carrying out these functions, national authorities are assisted by a number of eu agencies, in particular the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex), the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency. the objective of this initiative is to improve cooperation at european level in the performance of coast guard functions: to this end, it is envisaged to develop cross-sectoral cooperation between the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca) in order to improve the synergies between the activities of these agencies in order to provide national authorities with a more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose service for their coastal functions. the objective of this legislative act, which strengthens cooperation at european level in the exercise of coastal protection functions, is to improve the cooperation and coordination of activities between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase the synergy of their respective services, in order to provide national authorities with coastal functions with more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the establishment of the european maritime safety agency will provide surveillance and communication services based on state-of-the-art technology, including space-based and ground infrastructure and sensors mounted on any kind of platform. also, its capacity will serve to enhance the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions including by analysing operational challenges and emerging risks in the maritime domain.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report, which aims to develop european cooperation in the field of coast guard functions. the european maritime safety agency's main task is to facilitate cooperation between member states to ensure the safety of ships, including the protection of offshore oil and gas installations. the agency is also responsible for the oversight of satellite programmes such as safe sea net. the creation of a new border guard agency will require the european agency for asylum and migration to share its data with the agency, which will improve the work of both agencies.
in writing. strengthening capacity through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices, as well as through staff training and exchanges.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the community fisheries control agency. national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement. all those functions can be coordinated at the eu level. the aim of the proposal is to enable cooperation between three european agencies (the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the new european border and coast guard agency), whose duties include dealing with disasters at sea, to coordinate their operations at sea and share information pertaining to their activities. the european fisheries control agency will have the following tasks: to share information and set up systems to exchange information among agencies; to provide surveillance and communication services using state-of-the-art technology; capacity-building at eu and national level and capacity-sharing.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a european fisheries control agency. there are currently over 300 civil and military authorities in the member states, which carry out coast guard functions in the fields of safety of navigation, security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection. in carrying out these functions, national authorities are assisted by a number of eu agencies, in particular the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca). this proposal, which strengthens cooperation at european level in the performance of coastal protection functions, aims to improve the cooperation and coordination of activities between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase the synergy of their respective services, in order to provide national authorities with more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services for the performance of coastal functions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines the commission's proposal for a regulation establishing a european fisheries control agency. the purpose of this proposal is to enable the three eu agencies, which inter alia respond to disasters at sea, to coordinate their operations at sea and to exchange useful information on their actions. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate by exchanging operational capabilities and surveillance information in order to ensure maritime safety and security. this agency helps monitor fisheries-related operations, but it cannot currently operate in other areas of maritime activity. this proposal aims to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to maritime threats and risks, in particular by improving cooperation between eu agencies and between all civil and military actors. cooperation will avoid duplication of effort and ensure that stakeholders, in particular eu agencies, act in a consistent and efficient manner and develop synergies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european fisheries control agency’s objective is to organise operational coordination of fisheries control and inspection activities by the member states and to assist them to cooperate so as to comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy in order to ensure its effective and uniform application.
in writing. it is essential to ensure that the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency cooperate properly in the exchange of operational capabilities and surveillance information in order to ensure maritime safety and security. it should be noted that this cooperation is of particular importance in the light of the current situation regarding the migrant crisis. the european union needs to cooperate more closely with the large flows of migrants. it is noted that the current cooperation system is weak and has shortcomings, in particular due to insufficient information on the competence, powers and capacities of other institutions, limited operational resources, insufficient interoperability of systems and resources, lack of joint planning and joint operations. clearly, there is a need to change the situation. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at eu level to raise awareness of the situation at sea and support coherent, effective and cost-effective action. in addition, the capacity to respond to maritime threats and risks will be strengthened, in particular by improving cooperation between eu agencies and between all civil and military actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to strengthen cooperation and exchange of information between the three agencies: community fisheries control, european security and the new european border and coast guard. this is to improve the coast guard function and to coordinate actions in the event of a maritime disaster. only by sharing information, coordinating actions and redeploying capacity would the three agencies be able to enhance maritime safety and security.
in writing. - i supported the report on the need to protect larger ships and their crews at sea. safety at sea, and in particular the safety of rescue services at sea, requires joint action and the exchange of data. this will not be achieved in the current situation and in the number of national authorities carrying out such activities. there are now 316 of them. for this reason, the current system is fragile and lacks the exchange of information between member states. this is a direct threat to security, particularly in the coastal zones of the european union. the report's conclusions will enable eu agencies to provide direct support to national authorities while coordinating their actions. cooperation in this area will be of great benefit to countries with direct access to the sea.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to threats and risks in the maritime domain, in particular by improving cooperation between eu agencies and between all civil and military actors. cooperation will avoid duplication of effort and ensure that stakeholders, in particular eu agencies, act in a consistent and efficient manner and develop synergies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a secretariat of the european anti-fraud office. this proposal aims to increase the independence of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee and thus to ensure a more efficient work of the supervisory committee. in its 2013 and 2014 annual activity reports, the supervisory committee highlighted the potential for conflicts of interest in the exercise of the appointing authority's powers by the director-general of olaf, including decisions on promotions and transfers. it therefore called for its budget and that of the secretariat to be entered under a separate line in the olaf budget. objective of the proposal under the proposed new regulation, the secretariat services for the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and not by olaf.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the european parliament's examination of the commission proposal for a regulation on the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the proposal therefore aims to increase the independence of the olaf supervisory committee's secretariat and thus to ensure a more efficient work of the supervisory committee. parliament has already called on the commission on several occasions to take measures to strengthen the independent work of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee. this issue was also discussed in the council, parliament and commission exchanges of views as provided for in the olaf regulation. in their exchange of views of 28 september 2015, the representatives of the european parliament reiterated the need to enhance the independence of the work of the secretariat of the supervisory committee. in its annual activity reports for 2013 and 2014, the supervisory committee therefore underlined the importance of its independent and effective work, which requires an independent and adequately staffed secretariat. he stressed that conflicts of interest could arise in the exercise of the appointing authority's powers by the director-general of olaf, including decisions on promotions and transfers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. in the past the european parliament called several times on the commission to take measures to reinforce the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to increase the independence of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee and thus to ensure a more effective work of the supervisory committee. the proposal was essentially the result of the activities of giovanni kessler, director-general of olaf, which were intended to weaken the work of the supervisory committee. in this situation, there were three possible outcomes: 1. the resignation of the director-general; 2. appointment of the director-general to other posts; the transfer of the secretariat of the committee 3 to the commission. after much deliberation, the third option was chosen. meanwhile, the european commission has allowed giovanni kessler to be granted partial immunity in order to allow him to be questioned by the belgian police. the relocation of the secretariat only partially solves the problems raised by giovanni kessler, but at the same time allows the secretariat to do its job.
in writing. i support the proposal as it aims to increase the independence of the olaf supervisory committee's secretariat and thus to ensure a more effective work of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to review the long-term expenditure of the eu. i agree with the suggestions that the eu should update its long-term spending plan and take better account of unforeseen crises such as migration, terrorism, agriculture or youth unemployment. the multiannual eu spending plan 2014-2020 needs to be more flexible in order to respond appropriately and in a timely manner to crises that could not be foreseen in advance. it is unacceptable that there is still no budgetary crisis management strategy and that, in the absence of resources, the eu is creating ad hoc financial instruments lacking accountability and democratic control. i support the proposal to create a permanent eu crisis reserve in the union budget to avoid the ad hoc situations and trust funds mentioned above. the commission should also present the possible consequences of the uk's withdrawal from the eu for the union budget.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it examines the preparation by the european parliament of the revision of the post-election multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. parliament considers that the 2016 revision of the mff should assess a range of serious crises and new policy initiatives, together with their respective budgetary implications. attention should be paid to the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security problems, the agricultural crisis, low levels of investment, the still high level of unemployment, especially among young people, poverty and social exclusion, gender mainstreaming. it also seeks to draw attention to the recent international agreement on climate change and the growing pressure on development policy. the european parliament stresses that the eu budget must be consistent with the political and strategic priorities of eu policies and ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges, and therefore underlines the important role that the eu budget has to play in achieving the commonly agreed objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the parliament argues that the revision of the mff should include a qualitative analysis to determine whether the objectives set out in this strategy have been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to provide an opinion on the long-term revision of the eu budget. despite the fact that the report focuses on the crises of the last few years and the need to find funds to deal with them, the text of the report itself is weak, unambitious. in general, redistribution and allocation are linked to crises, but not to data that could be obtained from evaluating the effectiveness of current programmes. so there is no reform. the accompanying communication is very vague it does not clearly indicate which programmes, with the exception of one, require additional funding.
in writing. i believe that the 2016 revision of the mff should take account of a number of serious crises and new policy initiatives, together with their respective budgetary implications, which were not foreseen when the mff was adopted. draw attention to, inter alia, the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security challenges, the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the crisis of payments to the eu budget, the still high level of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as poverty and social exclusion; i also draw attention to the recent international agreement on climate change and the growing pressure on development policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to avoid harmful tax incentive practices for businesses and to introduce fairer and more transparent corporate taxation. the recommendations were drawn up by a special committee of the ep which investigated the luxleaks scandal in 2014, which exposed the preferential tax schemes for multinational corporations in some eu countries. i support calls for the establishment of a public register of beneficial owners of eu companies, a union blacklist and sanctions of non-cooperative jurisdictions, a ban on the inappropriate use of preferential taxation of patent revenues, and a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament discusses decisions on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect. parliament regretted that 13 member states had not taken adequate measures to combat aggressive tax planning. it also regrets that, in granting a request for a reduction or exemption from the deductible, some parties do not check whether the request was made by the beneficial owner. some member states do not apply the rules for controlled foreign companies and the rules necessary to combat tax discrepancies in the classification of local companies in another country. to date, no member state has called for the prohibition of aggressive tax planning schemes. it is regrettable that a number of multinational companies interviewed did not strongly condemn tax avoidance practices and aggressive tax planning. the european parliament calls on the commission to present a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base and to propose an appropriate method of apportionment in order to fully address the problem of harmful tax practices in the union. stresses that the automatic exchange of information will require the processing of a large amount of data and in particular emphasises the need to coordinate computerised data processing issues; the commission is invited to draw up as soon as possible a common union definition and a list of non-cooperating countries and territories (tax havens) and to impose sanctions on these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. tax dumping is done at the expense of the general public and small- and medium-sized companies. in a fair tax system, multinational companies also pay their share and they should do so where they add value and make their profits. with this report, europe is stepping up to the plate in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. therefore, clear demands are being made for increased accountability and for effective deterrents in the form of markedly increased sanctions for tax havens, banks, tax advisers and companies.
in writing. i strongly believe that the eu and its member states must step up their fight against tax evasion, avoidance and aggressive tax planning, and work towards closer cooperation and greater transparency, in order to restore tax fairness, make our tax systems fairer not only in the eu but also globally. it should be noted that aggressive tax planning is contrary to the principles of corporate social responsibility. it also results in member states losing significant revenues to national budgets, as tax planning becomes increasingly difficult to control. therefore, specific measures should be provided to prevent the implementation of aggressive tax planning schemes. particular attention shall be paid to the preferential taxation of patent, knowledge and research and technological development income. in addition, a blacklist must be drawn up and specific sanctions imposed on non-cooperating countries and territories.
in writing. - i supported this report, which contains a number of the green group's ideas. it should be noted that the european commission estimates the scale of tax evasion and avoidance at up to eur 1 trillion per year. the funds needed to stimulate the economies of the member states would be generated by tackling tax evasion. it is important to note that the issue of tax avoidance is not limited to multinational companies and is closely linked to criminal activities. and there are many solutions. they are also proposed in this report: the blacklisting and sanctioning of non-cooperative jurisdictions, the protection of whistleblowers, the preparation of member states' reports, the taxation of money leaving eu countries, the introduction of minimum taxation, etc.
in writing. i stress the need for a common and comprehensive eu-us approach to the implementation of oecd standards and equity; furthermore, i stress that the good governance clauses and the implementation of the beps measures should be included in all future trade agreements to ensure a level playing field, create greater value for society as a whole, ensure the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and that the transatlantic partners lead in promoting good governance in the field of taxation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to increase the number of seats by 17. the interaction between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. i support the calls on the commission and the member states to take the needs of smes into account and to ensure their interaction in the design and implementation of the esi funds and the horizon 2020 programme. the commission should develop coordinated calls for proposals to increase access to funding from multiple funds. the european fund for strategic investments is to complement the normal activities of the esi funds and other eu programmes such as horizon 2020 and the european investment bank. notes that the commission's annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 september 2012;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses parliament's support for the interaction between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. parliament stressed that regions and member states wishing to invest the european regional development fund in research and innovation must develop smart specialisation strategies. recalls that the smart specialisation strategies should include actions at the initial stage (building the capacity of the national research and innovation system) and at the later stage (deployment of research results, support for innovation and market access) under horizon 2020; the need to invest in the communication between participants in the processes is emphasised. the european parliament argues for greater access to r & d results, the creation of high-quality jobs, the promotion of the green economy and greater synergies with other eu competitiveness policies. also stresses that grants remain necessary for certain projects, such as research and innovation projects and projects addressing societal issues. financial instruments complementing grants have a leverage effect and may therefore increase the impact of funding by reintroducing innovation in the market. parliament considers it important to identify relevant areas of specialisation in regions or member states in order to link up with them and to prepare better for the possibilities of multilateral projects and to establish international links. eu measures should be fully harmonised and duplication or incompatibility in the implementation of measures should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. with the new programming period of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 synergies between esi funds and horizon 2020 should be ensured to maximise the impact and efficiency of public funding. however, a stronger complementarity between the funds is needed. therefore, this resolution calls for a stronger focus by the commission and member states to increase the synergies between the funds.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. in my view, it is essential to ensure optimal synergies between the horizon 2020 programme and the esi funds for two very important reasons. in particular, the strengthening of this interaction would help to overcome the ever-increasing competitive pressure from the global market. secondly, this interaction will increase the impact and efficiency of public funding. it is worth noting that the interaction between the structural funds and the 'horizon 2020' programme will facilitate the implementation of smart specialisation strategies, which are an ex ante condition for investment in research and innovation. synergies with other policies and instruments should also be enhanced in order to maximise the impact of investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the european parliament's approach to the interaction between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. this is the way to get the most out of it. the resolution is important in that it encourages greater access to eu research and technological development results. this is to ensure the dissemination of knowledge to a wider range of stakeholders and to provide a basis for research with higher added value. the report also addresses the creation of new high-quality jobs and the preservation of old ones by promoting the green economy. at the same time, it is reiterated that the implementation of the budgetary components of the key programme 'horizon 2020' is only possible through cooperation, i.e. through the creation of public-private partnerships.
i believe that cohesion policy needs to be more results-oriented.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which sets out the ep's recommendations for the european commission's 2017 work programme. i agree that the main priorities of the ec's work should be: improving the working and living conditions of citizens, economic recovery and long-term competitiveness of the eu, energy security, migration and refugees, threats to citizens' internal and external security, fair taxation and the implementation of economic and monetary union. i support the call on the commission to submit an ambitious proposal for a european pillar of social rights to promote early education, tackle skills gaps and ensure access to quality education, training and lifelong learning for all, reduce social inequalities and promote the creation of quality jobs, and address work-life balance issues, as well as gender pay and pension gaps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament sets out its strategic priorities for the commission's 2017 work programme. in this resolution, parliament recalls that the european economy is recovering slowly, with high unemployment, poverty, inequality and a lack of prospects for younger generations still present in many eu regions, and that the eu must therefore strive to create a dynamic and inclusive labour market. parliament called on the commission to promote the accessibility and quality of early childhood education, childcare and health care, to tackle the problem of skills shortages and to ensure access to quality education, training, vocational training and lifelong learning for all, to reduce social inequalities and to promote the creation of quality jobs, especially for young people and long-term workers. address work-life balance issues and eliminate gender pay and pension gaps. the eu can lead the world by exploiting the full potential of its single market and promoting entrepreneurship, fair competition, investment and innovation. parliament also draws attention to the fight against climate change and energy security, the growing flow of refugees, fair taxation policies to ensure sufficient resources, the strengthening of the eu budget and financial instruments, the creation of economic and monetary union, the strengthening of fundamental rights and democracy, and the resolution of security issues of concern to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the commission should monitor, encourage and support member states’ efficient and effective spending of funds to boost youth employment and the creation of quality employment, in particular in regions with high unemployment levels, through programmes for jobs and growth such as those financed by the youth employment initiative, the european structural and investment funds, the european fund for strategic investments and the european investment bank.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the text is not ambitious enough, especially in the light of the growing criticism of the work of the eu institutions. the communication does not clearly indicate how the objectives will be achieved. the text is full of high-sounding phrases that many would agree with. however, no specific measures are mentioned, nor is any attempt made to identify them.
in writing. i call on the european commission to ensure that investments are effectively implemented in a timely manner, giving priority to financial assistance to recipient countries, with particular attention to regions experiencing economic crisis and recession with high levels of unemployment and poverty, promoting growth and job creation, strengthening micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and ensuring strong economic development and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ in 1982, the international whaling commission adopted a moratorium on all commercial whaling, which is still in force, in order to protect the species from extinction and to allow them to recover. however, commercial whaling continues in a number of countries. japan has been conducting this type of whaling for decades. i support calls for japan to stop its whaling. the commission, the european external action service (eeas) and the council should also encourage japan to take international commitments on the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its concern at japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015/16 season. the european parliament supports a global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international commercial trade in whale products, urges an end to unjustified whaling for scientific purposes and supports the establishment of whale sanctuaries in large ocean and marine areas where whaling would be banned indefinitely. parliament regretted that japan had clearly ignored the ruling of the international court of justice in its decision to resume whaling and considered that the hunt violated the standards of the international whaling commission and international law and was detrimental to the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. real research doesn't need to involve large-scale whale killing. parliament therefore called on japan to immediately cease whaling activities and called on the commission, the european external action service (eeas) and the council to urge japan to take international commitments on the protection of marine mammals. regrets that japan has not yet reconsidered its decision despite the diplomatic demarche and widespread international protests, and calls on the eu and its member states to do everything possible to resolve the issue through political dialogue and the international whaling commission;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. japan has to stop its whaling activities and to respect the conclusions of the international whaling commission. i strongly support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international commercial trade in whale products.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. japan is a strategic partner of the eu and their bilateral relationship is based on shared values, including a strong belief in effective multilateralism and a rules-based international order. japan's renewed whaling is a clear violation of international law. the eu is therefore obliged to take appropriate measures. it should be noted that the hunt violates the standards of the international whaling commission and international law, and is detrimental to the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. i would like to point out that scientific research does not require large-scale and regular killing of whales. in view of this, japan should immediately cease whaling activities and strictly abide by the conclusions of the scientific committee of the international whaling commission. in addition, appropriate mechanisms should be established to cooperate with japan on a permanent basis on the issue of scientific whaling in order to eliminate abusive practices and to encourage japan to reconsider its position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on japan to stop its whaling. the resolution deplores the clear disregard by japan of the international court of justice ruling in the resumption of whaling. the resolution calls for urgent action to strengthen the international whaling commission and calls on member states to press for the necessary decisions at the next international whaling commission meeting in october. i am convinced that the european union institutions must continue to press japan to abandon whaling.
in writing. calls on japan to end all whaling activities. the council and the european parliament support the continuation of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and the ban on international commercial trade in whale products, as well as the cessation of so-called scientific whaling and support for the establishment of whale sanctuaries in large ocean and marine areas where whaling would be permanently prohibited.
in writing. ‒ the i regret that this parliament did not vote in favour of a resolution which sought to withhold political and financial support from the belarusian regime in the run-up to the parliamentary elections on 11 september. eu guarantees to the european investment bank (eib) and the projects it finances are available to non-eu countries that respect basic international standards, in particular in the areas of democracy, human rights and the environment. the european parliament would have acted consistently if we had supported the resolution tabled by our colleagues today and postponed the discussion and vote on the resolution on the eu guarantee for eib activities in belarus beyond september, having first assessed whether the elections in belarus were free and democratic, whether osce requirements and recommendations were respected, and whether belarus is implementing other international treaties and conventions to which it is a party. the lifting of sanctions against belarus in february this year has given hope that the authorities in belarus, the eu's neighbour, will appreciate the significance of this decision. i regret to say that belarus is not cooperating with the eu and its member states and is continuing the construction of the russian-funded astravyansk nuclear power plant in violation of the espoo and orhuss convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to block the european investment bank (eib) from cooperating with belarus in the run-up to the belarusian elections, as it would be an inappropriate eu message to be exploited by the regime. the general elections scheduled for 11 september 2016 provide an opportunity for belarus to end its long-standing practice of unfair elections and may prove to be a decisive test of the belarusian authorities' genuine desire to reconcile with their citizens and to cooperate constructively with the european union. the resolution draws attention to the fact that, contrary to expectations, in affirming the council conclusions on belarus, which lifted the vast majority of sanctions against the regime, minsk has not made any systemic reforms, i.e. ignoring the odihr recommendations for the upcoming elections, not rehabilitating political prisoners, not cooperating with the un special rapporteur, not declaring a moratorium on the death penalty and, on the contrary, has already executed or accepted three death sentences in courts this year. minsk also ceases to cooperate with the eu and its states and continues to build the astravyansk nuclear power plant in violation of the espo and orhuss convention and financing russia. parliament called on the commission to ensure that the astravyansk nuclear power plant could not be financed by the eu guarantee to the european investment bank and asked it to assess whether such a guarantee was compatible with eu sanctions against the russian federation.
in writing. - i voted for this objection. it is regrettable that this objection was not adopted by enough members. it must be acknowledged that the lithuanian authorities did not do enough to prevent belarus from receiving funding for the construction of the astravyts nuclear power plant. despite some achievements in the council, it was possible to concentrate efforts more, to convince the baltic partners and other countries, and to inform lithuanian parliamentarians of the intentions, so that the final result would be even better. however, this was not done and the european parliament was informed of the commission's decision at the last moment. as a result, even with active efforts, more than half of the members of the european parliament were unable to agree to the objection within a few days, although it was only a short distance away. it is only to be hoped that the lithuanian authorities will remember in the future that the european parliament has considerable powers and that lithuanian parliamentarians are willing and able to contribute to decisions on common objectives.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum own funds and eligible liabilities requirement. the commission should present a new delegated act which takes into account the following recommendations: the assessment of systemically important institutions whether the burden-sharing requirement can be met, the recapitalisation haircut test and the peer review of systemically important institutions should remain in the text of the delegated regulation, and the 48-month transitional period limit should remain in the text of the delegated regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which rejects the commission delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the methodology for setting the minimum own funds and eligible liabilities requirement. the european parliament requests the commission to submit a new delegated act to take into account the assessment of systemically important institutions as to whether the burden-sharing requirement laid down in directive 2014/59/eu can be met. therefore, it should be clearly provided that the delegated regulation aims at ensuring compatibility with the directive and legal certainty. the parliament considers that the recapitalisation haircut test and the peer review of systemically important institutions and the 48-month transitional limit should be retained in the text of the delegated regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is in contradiction with the proposal for a commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum own funds and eligible liabilities requirement. i think it is not good that the text of the delegated regulation has not included the test of reducing the recapitalisation amount and the systemic rating of systemically important institutions and the 48-month transitional limit.
mr president, the global strategy is a good draft – a correct assessment of where we are. i like the word ‘global’: to me it is crystal clear that the european union needs finally to become a self-confident, global player. this document must become a handbook for a global player. this is what the world expects: a capable, effective and responsible eu in action globally. what our citizens expect is security in everyday life. this is very well understood, and it is our primary responsibility to guarantee it. however, i am convinced that, in this globalised reality, no internal security can be guaranteed without the external one. we have agreed that we need to act. i therefore call on the european union to develop and strengthen its common security and defence policy (csdp) instruments and deploy the csdp mission in eastern ukraine to make a real difference and stop the bloodshed.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in 2015 the world saw yet another year of dire human rights situations. global human rights threats and democratic challenges became even more pronounced. we experienced an unprecedented migration crisis in the mediterranean, a surge in the daesh threat, continuing aggression against ukraine, and a crackdown on civil and political rights in many places around us. this is all happening on europe’s doorstep or in europe itself. can this be effectively managed? i believe, yes, but only if we ensure consistency between our words and actions. only if we make full use of our policy and the financial instruments at hand. i want to see human rights underpin the implementation of the new eu global strategy just presented by the commission. they are a prerequisite for stability and democracy and therefore have to be systematically mainstreamed into the work in crisis regions such as the middle east, africa or ukraine. in addition, we need to scale up our efforts in empowering civil society. human rights defenders and space for civil society are the main – and often only – catalysts for positive change. only a strong civil society can accommodate the voices of minorities and other vulnerable groups. we must ensure that they are better protected from authoritarian governments and their restrictive laws and actions. lastly, if we want to tackle the global governance crisis, the eu cannot act alone. we not only need to work closely with the united nations but we need as well to make human rights partnerships with third countries, exceeding further human rights dialogue formats. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am sure that human rights must remain a brand mark of the european union. if we lose this brand mark, we will lose a lot. we will lose even more than we might imagine. if our actions and words go hand—in—hand, and if we implement not only human-rights defence policy but also our trade policy, development policy and foreign policy along these lines, i see a great deal of success and a great probability that we will succeed not just in keeping our own human-rights criteria high but also in helping the countries and the persons affected.
on behalf of the s&d group dear colleagues, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent report and for our close cooperation on behalf of the disabled, and i am pleased that this cooperation has enabled us to strengthen certain aspects of the report that are of great importance to the disabled. and indeed, the report now focuses more on and highlights the employment problems of disabled people and the barriers they face to entering the labour market. and indeed, one of the most important remaining problems is discrimination against disabled people in the workplace. we have to fight against this and i commend both the european parliament and the european commission for taking certain steps to strengthen the protection of disabled people against discrimination in all the countries of the european union. however, we still have a long way to go to make workplaces in the member states truly disabled-friendly and to create working conditions that enable disabled people to work. we also need to ensure equal access for disabled people to education and vocational training. all these aspects are essential to enable people with disabilities to work and live as independently as possible, to achieve their professional potential and thus contribute to society. i therefore agree that we must encourage member states to provide employers with certain tax incentives and other incentives to ensure that they actually employ disabled people. and of course, this is just one of the incentives, but governments have to take advantage of all the opportunities that are available to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. the other area of particular importance to which i would like to draw attention is the social protection of the disabled. state social assistance for the disabled, whose employment rates are indeed low, often becomes the only source of livelihood. without social assistance, up to 70% of disabled people in the european union would be living below the poverty line. the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities particularly highlights the negative impact of unbridled savings on the social protection of persons with disabilities. indeed, the savings were made first, and at the expense of the already most vulnerable. we must therefore correct this, and take concrete measures in the member states to improve social protection for the disabled. and the other thing i want to stress, especially since a distinguished member of the commission is here. the commission is delaying the mid-term review of the european disability strategy 2010-2020. i think that this mid-term review would be very useful for the decisions that we have to take both at the level of the european union and in the individual member states, because then we would simply know the real situation of our disabled people. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you for asking. i am in principle in favour of the existence of genuine social enterprises for the disabled in the member states of the european union, which can directly employ disabled people. such enterprises are operating, but it is doubtful that they are sufficiently well supported. it needs to be strengthened to ensure that people with real disabilities can work and that these businesses do not go bankrupt. but there's one side. the other side is that not only in social enterprises for the disabled can disabled people work, but also in the general labour market, so that in an open labour market employers have an interest in accepting disabled people. and that's when we bring those two possibilities together, when we get employers to actually take an interest in hiring people with disabilities, then we're going to have a really good outcome.
the european union acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities almost six years ago. i would like to express my views on this important issue not only as a politician but also as a person who is deeply familiar with these problems. we must do everything we can to make life easier for people with disabilities. it is also necessary to ensure adequate social support and old-age pensions for parents and carers of disabled people, whose daily commitment to their loved ones can be courageously described as a heroic act. the convention makes it clear that all human rights of persons with disabilities must be guaranteed. unfortunately, these provisions have not been fully implemented since ratification. and one of the most important human rights is the right to live with dignity. this noble objective can be achieved not only by increasing the budgetary expenditure of the member states, but also by allocating targeted grants from the european commission. thank you for your attention.
madam president, i would say to the high representative that bahrain is a key partner of the european union in the persian gulf, and we want to deepen our partnership in order to better respond to future challenges, but regrettably today, with the aggravating cases of breaches of human rights and the rule of law in bahrain not much has changed in that country since my last visit. if, after two years of absence, being back to the european parliament. in our resolution see familiar names of the persecuted human rights defenders – namely nabeel rajab, zainab al-khawaja, who has been forced into exile. i still recall our visit as members of the european parliament to juw prison. a big number of new cases of violations of human rights and of the bahraini constitution have taken place. i call on the bahraini authorities to immediately release all prisoners of conscious and lift the travel ban against human rights defenders. i insist that the authorities guarantee that all human rights defenders in bahrain are able to carry out their legitimate human rights activities without intimidation and harassment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. i fully support ep recommendations that the council will continue supporting multilateral attempts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa. we recommend the council to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations, in particular, the so-called ‘isis/daesh’, as well as to promote respect for human rights, to protect the rights of religious and other minorities and to advocate freedom of religion or belief. we have to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change. we should support a comprehensive reform of the united nations security council and promote a revitalisation of the work of the un general assembly.
in writing. ‒ the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, with the un at its core, is an integral part of the eu's external policy. i support the recommendations to the council to actively seek full compliance with international obligations and international law by all parties and their organisations directly or indirectly involved in armed conflicts and to seek peaceful and diplomatic solutions to the full range of conflicts, to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions to defeat and eliminate terrorist organisations, in particular the so-called isis (da'esh), to make greater efforts to curb recruitment and combat terrorist propaganda on social media platforms, to support the un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, producing, procuring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and using their delivery systems, to further support the un in its work to implement its mandate to protect refugees, to pay special attention to the vulnerable groups such as women and children, and to take action to achieve the 2030 development goals.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. parliament makes recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the eu and un systems. parliament called for the active involvement of all parties to armed conflicts, directly or indirectly, and their organisations, in full compliance with international obligations and international law, and for the search for peaceful and diplomatic solutions to a wide range of conflicts. it also unequivocally condemns terrorism and fully supports actions to defeat and dismantle terrorist organisations, to increase efforts to curb recruitment and to combat terrorist propaganda on social media platforms. parliament recommended supporting the un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, producing, acquiring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and from using their delivery systems. encourages increased support for the work of the unhcr in implementing its international mandate to protect refugees, with particular attention to vulnerable groups such as women and children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. parliament encourages the stepping up of efforts to clamp down on recruitment and fight terrorist propaganda, through social media platforms but also through networks of radicalised hate preachers. also, it is crucial to continue to work with the un in combating the financing of terrorism, including the use of existing mechanisms to designate terrorist individuals and organisations and strengthen asset-freezing mechanisms worldwide while upholding international standards on due process and the rule of law.
in writing. i agree with the report. with violent conflicts in the eu's neighbourhood, the increasingly widespread mixed war in europe, cyber terrorism, so-called foreign fighters, unprecedented flows of migrants and the blurring of the distinction between external and internal threats, the european security environment is becoming increasingly difficult for individual states or regions to navigate. in this context, there is a need to strengthen cooperation with the un in the areas of peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state failure and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the eu should play an active role in order to contribute effectively to global solutions, development, peace and security, and an international order based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. there is a need to actively pursue full compliance by all parties to conflicts, directly or indirectly, and their organisations, with international obligations and international law, and to seek peaceful and diplomatic solutions to the wide range of conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which addresses the essential problems and challenges of our time. the resolution stresses first of all the need to combat climate change and that it must remain a priority for the european union. it also stresses the need to swiftly implement the decisions of the paris climate conference. the resolution also places a strong emphasis on the fight against terrorism. the european parliament believes that eu-un cooperation is essential in the fight against terrorist financing. the resolution expands the scope of cooperation and focuses on improvised explosive devices and the individuals who manufacture them. this is the type of munition used in many of the recent terrorist attacks. the text adopted calls for the use of the resources and expertise of the structures of the united nations system and interpol to facilitate greater law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. i support increased support by member states for un peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations that include a human rights component. further develop the procedures for the implementation of the eu common security and defence policy in support of un operations, including the deployment of eu combat groups or capacity building and security sector reform initiatives, while paying due attention to issues such as human rights, sustainable development and the causes of mass migration.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report concerning the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the eu acceded to the un convention in december 2010. with its ratification, the eu is now subject to scrutiny by the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the crpd covers a large range of rights, spanning all areas of life, some of which fall outside of the competence of the eu. therefore, member states are required to equally implement the convention at all levels, including regional and national. there is no hierarchy of human rights, and disability-based discrimination must be tackled; this is especially important for women and children with disabilities, older persons and individuals who have complex support needs, including those with intellectual and psycho-social disabilities.
‒ the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010. this convention is the first (and so far only) international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified as a single entity. the eu, like the other parties to the convention, was required to submit a preliminary report on the implementation of the convention upon accession. the purpose of this report is to examine first the issues raised in the concluding observations of the report. the eu institutions themselves are given the greatest attention, as they are to be the model for how the convention should be implemented. recalls that the full inclusion of persons with disabilities is not only a right and an entitlement of the persons concerned, but also a benefit for society as a whole, as it can benefit from the values and different capacities that these persons provide; the inclusion of people with disabilities in society, regardless of the social, economic, political or cultural status of the country, is not only a developmental issue but also a human rights issue. i support calls on parliament, the council and the commission to fully implement the recommendations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities and to ensure that these conventions are respected in all future legislation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010 and was the first regional integration organisation to sign the convention. the eu was required to submit an initial report after accession, as were the other parties to the convention, and subsequent periodic reports every four years. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is different from other human rights treaties in that it involves people with disabilities and their representative organisations from the very beginning of its drafting. to this end, the european parliament's joint working group on the advocacy of the rights of persons with disabilities, in cooperation with the european disability forum, held a joint working group meeting to hear the views of the european disability forum and its member organisations. their written and oral contributions are included in the working document and the draft report. the convention covers a wide range of rights, such as social inclusion, economic rights, the guarantee of freedom of movement for eu citizens and other rights relating to all areas of life, some of which fall outside the eu's remit. it is therefore necessary that member states also implement this crucial convention at all levels, including regional and national.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. what sets the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) apart from other human rights treaties is that persons with disabilities and their representative organisations were included in the process from the drafting stage onwards.
in writing. i agree with the report. there is no hierarchy of human rights and i believe that discrimination on the grounds of disability must be fought just as much as discrimination on other grounds. this is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly and people with complex needs, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities. full inclusion of persons with disabilities is not only a right and an entitlement of the persons concerned, but also a benefit for society as a whole. it is for this reason that the eu institutions and member states should do much more to ensure that all people with disabilities have access to rights and services. equal rights for all must be guaranteed and no member of society can be left behind, as the right to a trial is a fundamental right and a fundamental principle of the rule of law. it is important to note that in order to ensure full protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, it is essential to guarantee them the freedom to choose how to live and to achieve their full potential. special support, including childcare assistance, is needed for women and men with disabilities and their family members to enjoy full rights as mothers and fathers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is clear that despite considerable efforts, discrimination and exclusion still exists for people with disabilities. the text emphasises mobility, access to justice, the creation of conditions for the autonomy of women with disabilities, access to means of communication and a range of other issues and challenges. the parliament believes that a broader approach is needed to achieve real improvements in the situation of people with disabilities. it is important to think beyond the concrete measures and to consider in advance the impact of legislation on disabled people. it is necessary to provide funding for the development of organisations for people with disabilities and for the provision of services that enable people with disabilities to live a full life.
in writing. i support initiatives to raise awareness of the difficulties faced by people with disabilities and to draw attention to their potential and the contribution they can make, including through specific educational programmes in schools; i would stress that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is important first of all because it changes the cultural attitudes, i.e. it recognises that it is the social and economic barriers, not the disability, that make people disabled.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1924/2006 requires the commission to establish, by 19 january 2009, the specific nutritional descriptions to which foodstuffs or categories of foodstuffs must conform in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims. the commission has not yet established the characteristics of these nutrients. the commission proposal for a regulation states that the claim that caffeine increases alertness and concentration should not be used in the descriptions of foodstuffs intended for children and adolescents. the voluntary energy drinks industry code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks only provides for the non-sale of energy drinks to children under 12 years of age. i support the objection to the adoption of the draft commission regulation as it is incompatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. the commission should consider restricting the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament opposes the amendment of the commission regulation on certain health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health. the european parliament is opposed to the commission regulation because the commission has not yet established the descriptions of these nutrients. the resolution states that adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers (68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks) and 25% of adolescents who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans at a time. the voluntary energy drinks industry code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks provides that energy drinks are not to be sold to children under 12 years of age. it is also emphasised that a 250 ml can of energy drink may contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'coffee' in the labelling of foodstuffs intended for children and adolescents.
in writing. - i voted for this objection. regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 requires the commission to establish, by 19 january 2009, the specific nutritional characteristics to which food or categories of food must conform in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims. but so far, this has not been done. the draft commission regulation now in preparation, on the other hand, is incompatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as it does not restrict the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents. parliament recalls that 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks, and 25% of adolescents who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans at once. and that's a lot of money, considering that a 250-ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 grams of caffeine. therefore, the consumption of energy drinks poses a health risk.
in writing. the commission has not yet established the descriptions of these nutrients.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it must be admitted that member states want to enjoy the privileges of free movement of goods when exporting their own products, but when it comes to granting the same rights to goods from other countries, goodwill often evaporates. there is a constant effort to create additional rules, requirements, that would restrict the entry of products from other countries into that country's market. so basically, we want to play an unequal game. a good example is the way in which the united kingdom adopted the colours of the traffic lights for food labelling a few years ago. at first sight, the system seemed useful in that it informed consumers about the fat, sugar and salt content of products. however, synthetic materials were ignored. therefore, products with a higher fat content made from natural products would be assessed less favourably than those made from lighter but synthetic materials. the question therefore arises whether the intention was really to protect the health of consumers or to remove certain products from the market. the system was also intended to reduce sales of products from other countries, since consumers often preferred an even less well-reviewed brand to one they were familiar with, rather than one they were unfamiliar with. i am in favour of various labelling initiatives which help to attract consumers, but the development of these systems must also take account of the specificities of food packaging in other countries. i believe that the european commission should be more active in this area and ensure that all parties are informed in advance of any changes to the labelling of a country and are able to make their own proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, chairman. for the first time, heating and cooling are referred to as a separate energy sector, which is, incidentally, one of the largest, consuming about 50 percent of the energy produced. i would like to congratulate the commission on the preparation of such a comprehensive and detailed study. the action plan presented will help to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, integrate advanced technologies and renewable energy sources. the heating and cooling needs of member states vary according to climate, building site or heat economy. the implementation of strategies must therefore be flexible and each country must find the most appropriate way to achieve optimum efficiency in the heating sector. the role of local and regional authorities the real implementers of the strategy is important. in working on this report, i have heard many times that one of the main problems is that cities do not have enough professionals and experience to help them assess and plan heat farming in a comprehensive and effective way. often, industrial waste heat is not used because of bureaucracy, renewal is single rather than complex and the existing potential is not used. the instruments and conditions must be created to enable this level to take appropriate, economically sustainable, long-term decisions. the added value of the european commission is obvious. it has a general view of the sector and expertise. i believe that the commission should develop a coherent and comprehensive set of urban energy planning tools to help assess local heating and cooling energy availability, optimise and integrate building renovation and develop heating and cooling infrastructure. i think it is equally important to concentrate our efforts on both speeding up the renovation of buildings and upgrading heating and cooling systems. as experience from different countries has shown, attractive financial incentives have a high yield and do not necessarily involve only state support, but can also be in the form of soft loans, guarantees or municipal schemes.
in writing. the creation of an eu single energy market is one of the eu's top priorities, not only in the field of energy itself, but also in general in terms of increasing the eu's competitiveness, resilience to various crises and in the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate change and energy targets. a well-designed and properly implemented european energy market has the potential to significantly enhance europe's energy security and independence, in particular from the monopolistic external suppliers on which the union is still dependent. the creation of a genuine energy market requires the urgent need to dismantle the remaining eu energy islands and integrate them into the european energy networks in the fields of gas and electricity. the development of a new electricity market model requires a greater health of electricity and gas systems, which in the future will allow the eu and individual member states to become more resilient and to respond more quickly and effectively to supply disruptions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for the european liberals, smes have always been the key driver for the eu’s growth, development and job creation. in the eu we are dealing with about 23 million smes which make up around 99% of all businesses and generate two in three private-sector jobs. i believe these figures are more than enough to expect that the eu authorities make every effort to simplify common rules and measures, foster synergies of different programmes, boost diversification of sources for smes and strengthen policy coordination. also, the cultural gap needs to be bridged between the structural fund procedures and smes’ daily business practices in different countries and the regions. the eu cohesion policy has never had an easy life. since its inception, the criticism has been rather constant. however, we all know what a huge impact for growth and development the european structural and investment funds had and have for many eu member states. and again, to invite money is no longer an option. the only way to meet and empower this important eu investment instrument is to think, talk and act for effective and innovative employment of public resources, which would bring maximum impact and added value. still too much of eu cohesion money is deposited in the concrete; still too little is aimed at innovations.
the rapporteur. thank you, madam president. first of all, i would like to thank co-rapporteur tatjana ždanka and all the shadow rapporteurs for our joint work, because in fact our report is a contribution of the european parliament, a response to the action plan on work-life balance solutions, especially for families with children, published by the commission in summer 2015, and a contribution to the public consultation and the consultation with the social partners launched by the commission. the question is indeed very important and we expect to receive legislative proposals from the commission, because this is a very topical issue in the member states as well, since it affects every one of our citizens. in june this year, the council adopted conclusions on gender equality, stressing the need to adopt and strengthen legal instruments that would provide a real framework and equal opportunities for women and men to reconcile work, private and family life. it is good that we all want and strive for a common goal in this area. in the report, we therefore call on the commission to present as soon as possible an ambitious new proposal for a maternity leave directive, as well as a carers' leave directive, which would enable family members to look after dependent family members, disabled or elderly family members and provide them with a certain level of social protection. we also call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a paternity leave directive providing for at least two weeks of fully paid parental leave and finally to review the childcare leave directive and extend the minimum paid leave from four to six months, as women must in fact participate in the labour market, as the integration of women into the labour market is a key instrument in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. but if we are to encourage women to work and to stay in the labour market as long as possible, we must also provide them with the best possible conditions for reconciling work and private life. it is also important to emphasise that better coordination, coherence and access to the different types of leave in the member states would certainly increase employment. we must also take into account that europe is ageing rapidly, and that better work-life balance would enable parents to devote more time to their families, while also boosting fertility. it is often the case that if families, especially women, cannot balance work and childcare, they are not willing to have more children or choose not to have any at all. it is therefore not surprising that the european union is experiencing a declining birth rate. it is therefore essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships and additional social guarantees for families raising children. we must ensure gender equality and a fair distribution of family responsibilities. unfortunately, it is still the prevailing view that the problem of work-life balance is more often highlighted as a women's problem, as they bear the greatest burden of family care. we also strongly urge the commission to introduce, during the semester, certain target indicators for the care of elderly and other dependent persons, similar to the barcelona objectives, and to this end we call on eurostat and eurofound to collect relevant data and carry out research in this area. so there is no one-size-fits-all solution to work-life balance and it is up to each person to find the right balance to meet professional, personal and family needs. i very much hope, ladies and gentlemen, that all the groups in the european parliament will understand and support our report tomorrow, and we must send a message to the citizens of the european union tomorrow that we are not blind to their problems. i would ask for your support in voting for this report tomorrow.
thank you. thank you. colleagues, we can rejoice that the g20 meeting took place in china. unfortunately, it has not been marked by any major agreements or decisions. the real beneficiary of this outcome is its host, china, which has used the g20 format as yet another opportunity to promote beijing's economic model of the world, its 'one belt, one road' strategy, its strategy of de-atlanticisation. at that time, canada applied to join the aiib, the asian infrastructure investment bank, and now, of the major nations, only the united states and japan are not members of this chinese-led credit institution. the european union, beset by many problems, is not giving sufficient attention to the obor strategy and its possible consequences. finally, i should like to welcome the fact that the final communication also devotes considerable attention to the problem of antimicrobial resistance, with the aim of involving the world health organisation, the fao, the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations, the oecd and, in general, raising the issue to the level of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation are an ex-ante conditionality for the allocation of the european structural and investment (esi) funds. smart specialisation combines and brings together different policies, including those for entrepreneurship, education and innovation, in order for regions to identify and select priority areas for their development and related investments by focusing on their strengths and comparative advantages and contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the s3 platform, located at the jrc in seville, plays a key role in advising regions and setting benchmarks on their innovation strategies, helping lagging regions and enhancing multi-level governance and synergies between regions, by providing information, methodologies, expertise and advice to national and regional policymakers. the report stresses that there is a still limited role for civil society, which must be more actively involved, a lack of interregional cooperation and of synergies across esi funds and other eu funds. ris3 strategies have to be well implemented and improved in order to tackle the innovation gap and boost jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the cohesion policy and the research and innovation strategies for the smart specialisation initiative (ris3). ris3 strategies are an important tool to address the innovation gap in europe and to boost job creation and economic growth. i agree that the authorities should pay particular attention to monitoring and reviewing strategies in order to achieve high results and to increase interregional cooperation as much as possible in the development of large-scale projects that create added value for the economy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for the smart specialisation initiative. the strengthening of research, technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities under the european regional development fund 2014-2020. however, support for innovation varies widely across the eu, particularly in terms of the use of knowledge and technology to foster innovation. for the first time in this programming period, member states are obliged to develop national and regional smart specialisation strategies involving national and regional managing authorities and higher education institutions, industry and social partners in the entrepreneurship process. in this report, parliament therefore underlines that the aim of these strategies is to ensure knowledge-based sustainable growth, sustainable development and high-quality jobs in all regions, not only in developed areas but also in transition regions, as well as in less developed and rural regions and islands. parliament also calls for full compliance with the new ex ante provisions on the conditions for the allocation of esi funds to ensure that the smart specialisation strategy works.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. ris3 strategies are a valuable tool to tackle the innovation gap, and boost jobs and growth in europe. simplification, as well as coordination of the existing programmes, is also essential in contributing to a good implementation of those strategies in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ strengthening research, technological development and innovation is one of the investment priorities under the european regional development fund 2014-2020. however, support for innovation varies widely across the eu, particularly in terms of the use of knowledge and technology to foster innovation. for the first time in this programming period, member states are obliged to develop national and regional smart specialisation strategies involving national and regional managing authorities and higher education institutions, industry and social partners in the entrepreneurship process. in this report, parliament therefore underlines that the aim of these strategies is to ensure knowledge-based sustainable growth, sustainable development and high-quality jobs in all regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the benefits of cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies and the key challenges in developing them. it should be noted that these strategies are important because they can help to address the innovation gap in europe and boost job creation and economic growth. however, not everything has been done in the area of cohesion policy. increased interregional cooperation is necessary, especially when large projects with economic added value are being implemented. equally important, the document suggests that better coordination at all levels of governance can be achieved by promoting a top-down vision of regional strategies. i think that's the kind of approach that can lead to much better results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation (etc). etc so far has made a significant contribution to strengthening the eu’s objective of territorial cohesion through integrating diverse sectorial policies on a territorial scale. however, the etc budget of eur 10.1 billion represents only 2.8% of the total cohesion policy budget; therefore, an increased budget for etc in the next programming period will boost the added value of cohesion policy. the report also calls for greater respect for article 174 tfeu on territorial cohesion (rural areas, islands, cross-border and mountains regions, outermost regions). the report underlines the lack of reliable data on cross-border cooperation and thus calls on the commission, eurostat and other managing authorities to cooperate with the aim to set up common criteria and a common database. the etc programmes have proved to be effective; however, their potential should be further developed in areas beyond regional policy such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment. the report calls on the commission and the member states to consider preserving etc as an important instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to further promote european territorial cooperation (etc) activities, which has become one of the two equivalent objectives of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the eit is an effective tool for developing potential in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, health and environmental protection, and it is therefore necessary to maintain the eit as an important tool beyond 2020 and to substantially increase its budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on european territorial cooperation, best practice and innovative measures. the overall objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders in order to reduce regional disparities, remove remaining barriers to investment and cooperation across borders, strengthen cohesion and promote sustainable economic, social, cultural and territorial development throughout the union. unfortunately, today, not enough citizens of the european union are still taking full advantage of the opportunities offered by the eu's internal market and free movement. the european parliament therefore stressed that, for the period 2014-2020, approximately 41% of the european regional development fund will be invested in measures to improve the environment, 27% in the promotion of smart growth, including research and innovation, 13% in promoting inclusive growth through employment, education and training activities, and 33 programmes will generally aim to improve connectivity between different countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. european territorial cooperation represents high value for money and has future potential beyond regional policy. it makes a significant contribution to boosting integrated and sustainable territorial development, including implementation and dissemination of integrated approaches, development of governance approaches, harmonisation of planning instruments, administrative procedures and legal provisions across borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which discusses best practices and instruments for european territorial cooperation. the impact of european territorial cooperation has a high economic value. at the same time, it is a potential for future projects. the communication therefore calls on the european commission and the member states to work towards preserving the era as an important, positive instrument in the process of european integration and in cohesion policy beyond 2020. however, the management and implementation of eib programmes and projects must become less bureaucratic in the future. at the same time, the private sector contribution to the implementation of the etf is still lacking. it is therefore necessary to develop financial instruments that allow for the involvement of private stakeholders and encourage public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the report encourages the committee of inquiry to pursue its work and to implement fully the mandate given by parliament in its decision of 17 december 2015; it asks the conference of presidents and the bureau to support all measures needed to enable the committee of inquiry to fulfil its mandate. the interim report asks the commission to ensure prompt support and full transparency in assisting the work of the committee of inquiry, and requires that the governments, parliaments and competent authorities of member states assist the committee of inquiry in its tasks with full respect for the principle of loyal cooperation established in the union law. i fully support the approach taken and look forward to the hearings to take place later this year.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry, composed of 45 members of parliament, to investigate alleged irregularities or maladministration in the implementation of union law on vehicle emission measurements. i agree with the call for the committee of inquiry to continue its work and to fully implement its mandate.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by which parliament gave its opinion on emissions measurement studies in the motor vehicle sector. in 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of union law in the area of emission measurements in the automotive sector and decided that the committee would make any recommendations it deemed necessary in this regard. in this report, parliament asks the commission to ensure prompt support and full transparency in assisting the committee of inquiry in its work, in full respect of the principle of sincere cooperation, by providing all possible technical and political support, in particular by providing the required documents more quickly. parliament also asks the member states, in full respect of the principle of sincere cooperation, to provide the necessary technical and political support to the committee of inquiry, in particular by enabling the commission to submit the required documents more quickly and, where the submission of documents requires the agreement of the member states, by speeding up its internal procedures for granting such agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report. the interim report is factual and methodological in nature, aiming to provide an overview of the work programme of the emis committee. as the investigation of volkswagen case is still ongoing, it does not draw any conclusions. however, it is rather critical to provide it with all the technical and political support possible, in particular through swifter submission of requested documentation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep report on emission measurement studies in the automotive sector. this report provides an overview of the emis committee's work plan for the first half of its term of office. in addition, the committee is invited to collect and analyse information to determine whether the commission and the member states had evidence of the use of alignment devices and to collect and analyse information on the implementation of directive 2007/46/ec by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the work of the special committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector. i am a member of this committee and i must admit that it works under very difficult conditions. firstly, it is not easy for its members to request the necessary documents, and there are constant delays in their submission. nevertheless, the possible outcome of the committee's work is already emerging, which should reveal that there are still incompetent officials who did not want to investigate the reasons for the actual increase in emissions rather than the decrease.
in writing. ‒ the president of the parliament informed that on 15 july 2015 he had received a letter from the permanent representative of hungary to the eu containing the decision of the central district court of pest on the request to waive the immunity for defamation of mr istván ujhelyi'aus, member of the european parliament. as the statements were made before istván ujhelyi became a member of the european parliament, i therefore support the decision to waive the immunity of istván ujhelyi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of istván ujhelyiu, a hungarian mep. the central district court of pest has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr istván ujhelyiu, member of the european parliament, in relation to the defamation case before this court, namely statements made by mr istván ujhelyiu in 2014 about a private person in hungary. the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to any opinion or vote he may have expressed in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore do not fall within the scope of the protection of absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol (no 7).
in writing. ‒ i support the ep report proposing to lift the legal immunity of mr ujhelyi, member of the european parliament. i think it'll help law enforcement speed up their criminal defamation investigation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in a criminal case before the central district court of pest, istván ujhelyi is accused of defamation. on 25 april 2014 on the programme "straße lichter" (true lights), istván ujhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of tamás sneider for the post of deputy speaker of the hungarian parliament and said that t. sneider had fought with a member of the roma mafia and handed him a baseball bat with what i do not know what tool and that "everyone says that he was the head of a mafia-type organisation (a criminal organisation) at the local level". despite the fact that these statements were made when the person concerned was not a member of the european parliament, it was nevertheless necessary to waive the immunity of istván ujhelyi in order to investigate the incident.
in writing. ‒ the president of the parliament informed that he had received a request from rosario crocetta, a former member of the european parliament, to defend his parliamentary immunity in a criminal case pending before the court of palermo (italy). in the light of all the circumstances, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament uphold the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the decision of parliament to uphold the immunity of former italian mep rosa crocetta. former member of the european parliament rosario crocetta has asked to be defended as a member of parliament in a criminal case pending before the 3rd chamber of the court of palermo, in which, according to a statement from the public prosecutor's office, mr crocetta is suspected of having made defamatory statements, which are punishable under the italian criminal code. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time of the above statements and his parliamentary record shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and the member states. he also paid close attention to the negative impact of systemic corruption on politics and the economy, in particular as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
in writing. - i voted for this report. on 2 october 2012, during the political debate at the 'pio la torre' centre and on 7 october 2012, during the meeting of the electoral commission on the stage of the 'politeama' theatre, mr crocetta made statements which were considered by some as defamatory. at the request of the parties concerned, the public prosecutor's office of the court of palermo brought charges against mr crocetta for defamation, which is punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. since the statements made by the member concerned have a direct and obvious connection with his parliamentary activities, parliament decided to uphold his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the president of the parliament informed that the prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic had transmitted on 28 march 2016 a request for the waiver of the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos in relation to the proceedings which the prosecutor intends to initiate in respect of the criminal offences committed in thessaloniki. since the proceedings to be initiated are clearly not related to the status of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, i support the decision to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report of the european parliament which decided to waive the immunity of the greek mep sotirios zarianopoulos. the criminal proceedings are to be opened in respect of the alleged illegal authorisation by the thessaloniki city council in 2011 to use the common area for the construction of a pedestrianised terrace, and sotirios zarianopoulos is to be prosecuted as a former member of the thessaloniki city council. the process to be initiated is clearly not related to the status of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, but is related to his previous mandate as a member of the city council of thessaloniki.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in view of the request transmitted by the prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic on 28 march 2016 to waive the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos in relation to the proceedings which the prosecutor intends to initiate in respect of the criminal offences committed in thessaloniki and given mr zarianopoulos the opportunity to present his version of events to the ep committee, the european parliament adopted a decision to waive the immunity of the said member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. the european union was therefore obliged under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) to enter into negotiations with the wto members entitled to negotiate the tariff list of croatia with a view to eventually agreeing on a countervailing adjustment. such adjustment is mandatory if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in the customs duties in relation to the duties for which the acceding country has committed itself to the wto. i agree with this recommendation that this agreement with the people's republic of china be concluded on behalf of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it aims to harmonise eu legislation. by this report, parliament endorses the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china on the modification of concessions in the schedule of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i welcome the agreement with the people’s republic of china and believe the european parliament should give its consent. the people’s republic of china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession.
in writing. ‒ the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. the european union was therefore obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994) to enter into negotiations with the wto members entitled to negotiate the tariff list of croatia with a view to eventually agreeing on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is mandatory if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in the customs duties in relation to the duties for which the acceding country has committed itself to the wto.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. the european union was therefore obliged to enter into negotiations with the wto members entitled to negotiate the tariff list of croatia with a view to eventually agreeing on a countervailing adjustment. the relevant countervailing measures applicable to china are proportionate and do not exceed china's rights in relation to the impact on china of the withdrawal of the concessions from croatia.
in writing. i welcome the agreement with the people's republic of china and think that the european parliament should support it. the people's republic of china is entitled to regain its previous trading rights, given the slight deterioration of the situation due to the eu customs union enlargement to the eu following the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the eastern republic of uruguay to agree on compensatory adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it aims to harmonise legislation in the eu. by this report, parliament gives its consent to the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay on the modification of concessions in the schedule of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. thus, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (gatt 1994, article xxiv, paragraph 6), the eu was obliged to enter into negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the tariff list of croatia with a view to eventually agreeing on a compensatory adjustment, as the eu external tariff regime increases the tariff rates.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. the european union was therefore obliged to enter into negotiations with the wto members entitled to negotiate the tariff list of croatia with a view to eventually agreeing on a countervailing adjustment. the eu will include in its tariff schedule of 28 states the tariff schedule of 27 states with the amendments related to the tariff quotas applicable to beef. the european commission is also currently preparing an implementing regulation for several tariff quotas in relation to the agreement. the european parliament's consent to this council decision is a mandatory component of the completion of the ratification process of this additional protocol.
in writing. i consider that the european parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of gatt 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of mr stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. lazaros stavrou lazarou has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2010. as a member of the court of auditors, he contributed constructively to the work of the court and to the implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy. it also contributed to the work on the improvement of the annual reports to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the one in which parliament gave its support to the council's proposal to appoint mr stavrou lazarou of cyprus as a member of the court of auditors. parliament took this decision in the light of the assessment of the candidate's qualifications proposed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the council's proposal to appoint stavrou lazarou from cyprus as a member of the court of auditors. parliament took this decision in the light of the assessment of the candidate's qualifications proposed by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nomination of stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. he holds a bachelor of arts degree in economics from the university of halle and a master of arts degree in public administration from the j. f. kennedy school of public administration. he has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2 november 2010 and is seeking re-appointment for a further term. he clearly has the necessary skills and experience to continue this work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo worked as a judge at the portuguese audit authority. during his long career, he has gained extensive experience not only in administrative bodies and public authorities, but also in audit institutions where external financial control is carried out. as a judge of the portuguese audit authority, he carried out audits, paying particular attention to the legality of the administrative and financial execution of contracts concluded by central and local authorities. he was also responsible for audits investigating financial irregularities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council's nomination of mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo, of portugal, as a member of the court of auditors. parliament took this decision in the light of the assessment of the candidate's qualifications proposed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the evaluation of the committee on budgetary control, i support the council's proposal to appoint mr joão de figueiredo of portugal as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointment of mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. since june 2008, he has been a judge of the portuguese audit authority. for three years he was minister for public administration in the ministry of finance of the portuguese government. he obtained a law degree from the university of lisbon. given his experience and competence, there is no reason not to support his candidacy.
in writing. - i voted for leo brincant to be appointed to the court of auditors. leo brincat, as minister for finance and trade, was active in making the national audit office fully independent and an integral part of the maltese parliamentary service.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it rejects the council's nomination of leo brincant from malta as a member of the court of auditors. parliament adopted this decision without taking into account the assessment of the candidate's qualifications proposed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i voted for the nomination of leo brinkat as a member of the court of auditors. qualified as an associate member of the chartered institute of bankers london, he served for three years as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change in malta. it is noteworthy that there were considerable doubts about the qualifications of this person for the post of member of the court of auditors. leo brincata's answers to the committee responsible were also vague and incomplete.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the recommendation concerning community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries (delegated and implementing acts). in the light of the changes brought by the lisbon treaty and by the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was required to adapt the decision-making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. most of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been aligned to the new constitutional regime (trade omnibus i and trade omnibus ii). the commission committed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. following the adoption of the new inter-institutional agreement on better law-making in december 2015, the european parliament and the council were able to reach an agreement on the regulation in question, which was overwhelmingly approved by the committee on international trade of the european parliament and by the council.
in writing. ‒ i was writing for a recommendation on statistics relating to external trade with non-eu countries. having regard to the endorsement by the international trade committee, i endorse the position of the council at first reading without amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament endorses the common position with the council on the regulation on community statistics relating to external trade with non-eu countries. in the light of the developments brought about by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for the adoption of decisions on trade policy accordingly. the commission undertook to submit a proposal for a second alignment of provisions under the committee procedure in stage in order to align legislative acts providing for the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european parliament is voting on it for the second time. following the first approval of the report by the plenary on 12 march 2014, informal negotiations were opened under the italian presidency of the council with a view to reaching an agreement at an early stage of the second reading. however, during the preparation of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the tripartite dialogue negotiations were suspended. in december 2015, following the conclusion of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the parliament and council negotiating groups were able to reach an agreement on this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report concerning statistics on natural gas and electricity prices. since the 1970s the commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices. in 1990 the council adopted the directive to define the procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users. according to this directive, for household and final non-household consumers, the collection of data has been done by national authorities on a voluntary basis. i support the proposal to transform the voluntary basis into a mandatory one as serious problems in the data collection occurred as has been reported by several member states.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the future eu regulation on european gas and electricity price statistics. since the 1980s, the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices. in 1990, the council adopted a directive defining a procedure to increase the transparency of gas and electricity prices for industrial end-users but not for household end-users. the collection and publication of data is the responsibility of eurostat. in 2007, the methodology was improved to take account of liberalised energy markets. at the same time, data on natural gas and electricity prices to final household customers were collected on a voluntary basis and the response rate was 100%. the aim of the regulation is to make the voluntary approach mandatory in order to avoid problems in collecting data, as reported by some member states. this step is necessary to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the electricity and natural gas price data surveys and to continue to aim for high market share and high quality of the price data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the price collection is supposed to not lead to an additional burden for the reporting authorities and the price data will continue to be collected by the competent national authorities. this report aims to clarify the goals, facilitate certain provisions for the reporting authorities and the companies which have to provide the data, as well as to avoid misunderstandings which – in the worst case – would lead to incomparable data sets.
in writing. it is desirable that the collection of price data does not become an additional burden for reporting authorities and that price data continue to be collected by the competent national authorities. the report aims to clarify the objectives, to facilitate some provisions applicable to reporting authorities and companies that are required to provide data and to avoid misunderstandings that could, in the worst case, lead to inconsistencies in the data sets.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on a new energy market design. the report aims to strengthen the internal market for energy and to allow electricity to move freely to where it is most needed, to reap maximum benefits from cross-border competition and provide the right signals and incentives to drive the right investments. the electricity market should enhance regional cooperation on all dimensions of energy supply and demand, and should focus on improved, more decentralised and more flexible markets, in order to ensure a well-regulated, market-based system, which is capable of delivering on all of the eu’s established energy and climate goals for 2030. the report also considers that all member states have to implement fully the third energy package and to be more proactively involved in designing a flexible and decentralised internal market on electricity. furthermore, renewables need to be fully integrated into the electricity system by ensuring that markets are fit for renewables, promoting their participation in electricity markets on an equal footing with conventional generation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the development of a new energy market model. on 15 july 2015, the communication on the single european market was published and a public consultation on the structure of the new electricity market model was launched. in the energy sector, europe faces challenges including: increased dependence on oil and gas imports in recent years, lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by high tariffs, overall increasing global energy demand, threats to the security of producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, slow progress in energy efficiency, increased share of energy from renewable sources, integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different support schemes. i therefore support the need for better integration and coordination of the energy market, which will make it easier to achieve the common european objectives of ensuring a secure, cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy supply.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the report in which parliament spoke about the future model of the european electricity market. the european energy policy is to ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, to promote savings through more efficient use of energy, to develop renewable forms of energy and to connect energy networks. however, several member states are projecting a shortage of generation capacity, which could lead to a power outage in the near future, unless the necessary back-up mechanisms are put in place. closer cooperation at regional level is therefore essential and should contribute to enhancing market integration at european level. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the energy market. however, parliament called for the regulatory framework of european markets to be adjusted to increase the share of renewable energy and close the existing cross-border regulatory gaps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. improved integration and coordination of energy markets means that there are many opportunities to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally-sound energy supply. predictable energy prices and security of supply are indispensable in particular for maintaining domestic standards of living and ensuring job security at energy-intensive companies.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the new energy union strategy is even more beneficial for energy consumers, offering them more opportunities to participate in energy markets and ensuring better consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the eu strategy on heating and cooling. in the eu, almost 50% of the eu’s final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which 80% is used in buildings. the share of primary energy from fossil fuels in heating and cooling remains very high at 75% and presents a major barrier to decarbonisation, thereby accelerating climate change and causing significant harm to the environment. the heating and cooling sector should reflect the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop21) and be compatible with the eu’s energy and climate goal of 100% cent renewables by 2050 the latest. this issue affects in particular some eu member states (mediterranean countries) more than others. in order to tackle this issue, the energy efficiency of buildings must be improved and the use of renewables (including solar energy) must be increased. reversible heat pumps may play an important role since they are energy efficient and the re-use of waste heat and cold generated by industry should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy. the eu heating and cooling strategy is an integral part of the energy union strategy and the heating and cooling sector is therefore crucial to the achievement of the eu's energy and climate targets for 2020, 2030 and 2050, as well as to the objectives of increasing the security of energy supply. in addition, the new member states that joined the eu after 2004 have the greatest potential for efficiency gains in the area of thermal renovation of buildings. i therefore support the need to increase funding for work on the thermal regeneration of entire settlements. this should be considered as a priority, in particular because the owners of the buildings concerned cannot cover the costs and the state support is not sufficient.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it was the one in which parliament spoke on the strategy for heating and cooling buildings. heating and cooling accounts for almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand, 80% of which is used in buildings, and each additional percentage of energy saved would reduce gas imports by 2.6%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources, such as solar panels, solar water heating and solar thermal systems. the report also highlights that the share of renewable energy sources has been slow to increase, but that there is still a huge potential at all levels and that it should be exploited in the member states. parliament welcomed the commission communication on the eu heating and cooling strategy, which represents an important step towards a holistic approach to the restructuring of the heating and cooling sector in the european union and sets out priority areas for action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. there needs to be a substantial increase in the funding for work on the thermal renovation of entire housing estates, especially those built using large-panel system building methods. at least 25% of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund needs to be set aside for this purpose. this objective must be given high priority, particularly since on the whole the owners of the buildings concerned are unable to meet the costs involved and support from the state is insufficient.
in writing. ‒ the i support the report by the ep, which proposes a substantial increase in funding for the thermal renovation of entire settlements, especially those built using large-scale structures. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this objective must be considered as a major priority, as the owners of such buildings cannot cover the associated costs and the state support is insufficient. i also support the report's suggestion that the obsolete boiler plants in the settlements should be replaced as soon as possible by small but highly efficient cogeneration plants.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. it contains some very good ideas, such as emphasising the need for energy efficiency, encouraging the renovation of buildings, calling for specific solutions to the problems of rural buildings, which are often older, less energy efficient, less healthy and less thermal comfortable. however, it was decided to exclude important green proposals from the report, which is very vague about the development and integration of renewable energy sources into the common system. the commission also rejected proposals for stricter regulation of waste energy conversion, more efficient energy production and decentralised energy production.
in writing. i welcome the commission's intention to draw up a package of measures to facilitate the renovation of apartment buildings; i believe that a harmonised and comprehensive set of urban energy planning tools should be developed to assess local heating and cooling options, to carry out optimised and integrated building renovation and to develop heating and cooling infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on enhancing the competitiveness of smes. under the theme ‘competitiveness of smes’ the esi funds have allocated more than eur 63 billion (plus eur 31 billion of national co-financing for a total amount of eur 94 billion) in the 2014-2020 programme. in the eu there are 23 million smes, which account for around 99% of all businesses, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation, providing over 100 million jobs. however, only a small percentage of the eu’s smes are currently able to identify and exploit the opportunities offered by international trade, trade agreements and the global value chains, and only 13% of them have been active at international level outside the eu over the past three years. while voting in favour of this report i also call for a less regulated access to funding. i also invite the commission and the member states to ensure enhanced coordination and consistency among all eu investment policies targeted at smes and member states to exchange data and best practices. i also encourage the european commission to make serious efforts and to encourage the long-awaited internationalisation of smes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the communication on the implementation of the thematic objective of improving the competitiveness of smes referred to in article 9 (3) of the general regulation. the economic and financial crisis has increased poverty and social exclusion, as well as long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequality in many member states, and therefore smes have a vital role to play in promoting european recovery. each european structural and investment (esi) fund supports 11 thematic objectives each. by focusing support on themes, the operational programmes were better tailored to a specific number of strategic objectives, in particular those relating to the potential of smes, including micro-enterprises, to boost growth and create high-quality jobs. however, while smes are crucial to the success of cohesion policy, they face a number of problems - legal, institutional and technical. i therefore agree that the obstacles to smes that arise must be removed and that the support provided by the esi funds must be further strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's view on the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union. there are 23 million smes in the eu today, representing about 99% of all businesses. they contribute substantially to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation: smes provide over 100 million jobs, or 2 out of 3 private sector jobs, and have an employment growth rate twice that of larger companies. and yet smes that could qualify for assistance from the esi funds are particularly adversely affected by the complex and volatile rules and the associated bureaucratic burden, and in particular by the fact that the administrative costs are completely disproportionate in terms of the funding allocated, the time taken to process applications for funding and the need for advance payments. in this report, parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to take account of the added value of smes' projects in terms of development and innovation in traditional sectors, since this would not only create jobs but also preserve the specific character of local and regional businesses, while respecting the principles of sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. improving resource efficiency in smes offers enormous potential for the reduction of production costs and for productivity gains. a better use of resources is calculated to represent an overall savings potential of eur 630 billion per year for european industry. smes need a favourable business environment in which green ideas can be easily developed, financed and brought to the market.
in writing. i call on the commission and the member states to urgently find a long-term solution to the accumulated regional policy arrears and to properly apply the late payments directive (2011/7/eu) in order to ensure that smes, as project partners, do not lose interest in participating in support programmes and projects during the current programming period due to late payments; i also note that a more consistent compliance with this directive, which, inter alia, requires public authorities to make payments for their purchased goods and services within 30 days, would contribute to the stabilisation and growth of smes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eu strategy for the alpine region. the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy, following those for the baltic sea region, the danube region and the adriatic and ionian region. to my mind, the european commission needs to be more closely involved at the start-up stage of macro-regional strategies, at the design and planning stage as well as at the implementation stage. i fully agree that the european parliament should also be involved, in its capacity as co-legislator, in the launch and approval of strategies, as well as in monitoring their implementation. it is important to mention that this report stresses the importance of financial instruments, of encouraging innovation and new technologies in key areas of the economy, while preserving also forms of traditional economic activity. i supported this report because it also promotes the diversification of tourism and underlines the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity, as well as underlines the importance of protecting and enhancing the biodiversity in the alpine region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. the commission has drawn up an investment plan and set up a european fund for strategic investments to stimulate investment. this gives the countries of the region the opportunity to launch new investment projects and to strengthen those already under way. the eu strategy for the alpine region offers countries the opportunity to invest in joint projects that will have an impact not only on their region but on europe as a whole. i therefore support the eu strategy for the alpine region, which has a great potential and can be increased by involving local authorities and all public and private actors in the region.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report in which parliament gave its opinion on the eu strategy for the alpine region. macro-regional strategies are currently the main instrument for achieving the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion. a macro-regional strategy for the alps could help to stem the economic downturn by investing in research and innovation and supporting business, taking into account the specific characteristics and assets of the region. it is also worth noting that climate change in the alpine region is occurring at a faster rate than the global average, which is causing more frequent natural disasters such as avalanches and floods. parliament welcomed the commission communication on the european union strategy for the alpine region and the accompanying action plan, which it considered a step forward in the development of the region. parliament also called on the commission and the national, regional and local bodies responsible for the preparation, management and implementation of esi funds programmes to draw attention to the importance of macro-regional projects and actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the commission launched the fourth eu macro-regional strategy with its communication concerning a european union strategy for the alpine region focused on the population of more than70 million citizens who should reap the benefits of a closer cooperation between regions and countries in terms of research and innovation, sme support, mobility, tourism, environmental protection as well as energy resources management.
in writing. i would point out that the alpine regions are an environmental heritage that must be preserved, as they have a vast reserve of natural landscapes, a particular diversity of ecosystems that extends from the mountains to the plains and even to the mediterranean coast, thus creating an economic zone and a biosphere based on the coexistence of man and nature. i therefore stress the need for active and interactive cooperation between farming and other economic activities in protected areas in order to develop integrated tourism products, and the importance of maintaining and protecting the unique habitats of mountain regions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa. launched at the valletta summit on migration on 12 november 2015, the eutf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. it has been conceived in order to assist 23 countries across three african regions (the horn of africa; the sahel and lake chad basin; and north africa) that contain some of the most fragile african countries, which are affected by migration as countries of origin, transit or destination. the european union contribution amounts to eur 1.8 billion. the report considers that the eutf should contribute to the strengthening and improvement of local public services (e.g. social services, health, education, nutrition, culture) and that civil society and ngos should be actively involved. i would like to underline that the rules and criteria that govern development aid for projects financed by the eutf must be set according to the respect and promotion of human rights. it is crucially important that the commission monitors how the eutf funds are employed and allocated. parliament’s scrutiny powers over the fund are to be increased.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-africa infrastructure trust fund: the importance for development and humanitarian aid. the eu-africa infrastructure trust fund aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development, but to achieve this we need to deliver funds more quickly and flexibly in an emergency and to mobilise different sources of funding to address the migration and refugee crisis in its various dimensions. however, there is a growing risk of misuse of eu development support, and i agree that projects covered by the eu practice fund must have strict development objectives.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the eu trust fund for africa and its impact on development and humanitarian aid. the eu-africa infrastructure trust fund aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. africa continues to experience a very high rate of population growth and only a slight decline in the birth rate, and it is therefore essential to provide young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region. however, parliament regrets that the member states' contributions remain too low and represent only a small part of the union's contribution, and thus fall far short of the official commitment. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the main goal of the eu trust fund (eutf) for africa is to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management. the eutf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development.
in writing. i recall that a people- and community-oriented approach is crucial and i strongly believe that the eu trust fund should focus its main focus not only on economic development but also on public projects specifically aimed at improving the quality and fairness of basic services and their universal accessibility, in particular in the education, vocational training, health and nutrition, food security and water and sanitation sectors, all of which are crucial for increasing the inclusion, empowerment and well-being of local populations, with a particular focus on youth, as well as responding to the needs of vulnerable communities, including minorities, while having the opportunity to provide better and more equitable and sustainable services to all.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support to the report concerning labour market conditions favourable for work-life balance. in 2015 the european commission launched a public consultation titled ‘a new start to address the challenges of work-life balance faced by working families’. despite the recognition, as a fundamental right, of the reconciliation of professional, private and family life in the last decades, the eu legal and policy framework needs to be updated. i support the objective of the commission which is to increase the participation of women in the labour market in order to allow for parents with children and/or other dependent relatives to better balance family and work life, to allow for greater sharing of care responsibilities between women and men, and to strengthen gender equality in the labour market. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the commission and the member states to take necessary measures in order to promote equality between women and men at work and to ensure equal earnings and equal career opportunities. in the near future the commission should present a proposal for a revised maternity leave directive, bring forward a paternity leave directive and a carers’ leave directive as well as present an implementation report of the parental leave directive.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the creation of favourable conditions for work-life balance in the labour market. the need to modernise the work-life balance system at eu level is evident. society is undergoing demographic change, unemployment is still a major problem and childbearing continues to have an extremely negative impact on women's employment. i therefore agree that it is necessary to promote employment, to provide children with quality pre-school education and care and to provide all opportunities for leisure activities. in addition, an appropriate work-life policy will help to ensure the safety and quality of life of dependent persons who are elderly, disabled or suffering from chronic illnesses.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because, first of all, we must also take account of the fact that europe is rapidly ageing. a better work-life balance would enable parents to devote more time to their families and would encourage fertility. it is often the case that when families, and especially when women, cannot balance work and childcare, they are either unwilling to have more children or choose not to have any at all. it is no wonder, then, that many developed countries are now experiencing a declining birth rate. it is therefore essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships and additional social guarantees for families raising children. the commission will also be supporting the development of the european union's new strategy for the prevention of and fight against drug trafficking, which will be based on the european strategy for the prevention of drug abuse and trafficking in persons. it is also important to encourage fathers (and men) to take paternity and parental leave, as this will help to achieve gender equality in the labour market and encourage women to be more active in the workforce. thus, there is no one-size-fits-all solution to reconciling work, personal and family life, and the right balance needs to be found for each person to meet professional, personal and family needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i welcome the initiative, the need to modernise work-life balance framework at the eu level is obvious for several main reasons: society has seen demographic changes spurring more care needs, new ways of working have emerged, unemployment is still at unprecedented high levels, the diversity of family relationships and parenting arrangements has increased, parenthood still has strikingly negative effects on the employment rates of women and the current eu framework is falling very short of addressing this most important aspect of persisting gender inequality.
in writing. i stress the need to ensure the possibility of reconciling professional, personal and family life as a fundamental right for all people, in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and with measures that are accessible to every citizen, not just young mothers, parents or carers. i welcome the fact that the commission has launched a public consultation on the european pillar of social rights to gather views and feedback on the basic principles that should underpin well-functioning and fair labour market and social security systems in the euro area.
first of all, i really want to thank the reporter. a lot of work has been done, compromises have been made, because this message is vital to us. and i certainly support the main idea of the report that a competitive advantage for firms in our common european union market, if it is obtained at the cost of unfair practices or exploitation of workers, is absolutely unacceptable. such practices create divisions in certain member states, create antagonism within the european union and simply divide our unity. unfair practices must be tackled by various means, including through the strengthening of labour inspections, but also in cross-border cases, the fight against the shadow economy, illegal work, shell companies or tax evasion. but now i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to another very important point: the still large differences in working conditions and wages between member states. to overcome this, economic policies are needed that stimulate growth, increase productivity and create quality jobs in all member states.
thank you, madam chairman. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the commission's decision. i agree with many of the points made in this report. but i would point out that we should not overdo it, especially with transport companies. the exploitation of workers is a recurring phenomenon. it is clear that preventing such abuses is very difficult, especially since workers who are driven by crisis, poverty or other reasons often agree to all the conditions of their employer. these people rarely report violations to the authorities, for fear of losing their jobs. complicating matters further is the fact that some companies are registered in one country but actually operate in another. we must protect workers, but we cannot create a system that prevents business from competing. for example, we cannot force a lithuanian transport company to pay a truck driver a huge german salary just because he loads and unloads goods in this country, even though that driver is already earning a salary higher than the average lithuanian salary. thank you!
in writing. the annual speech by european commission president jean-claude juncker raised the question of whether we would hear proposals to tackle europe's problems, or whether the speech would be a 'day-to-day' one. the final result is somewhere in the middle. i think too much attention is being paid to current eu affairs: tax policy, the development of the telecommunications market, talk of the importance of investment or reducing unemployment. the president of the commission has certainly sought to set the tone for his work, but it is worth looking at the future from the other side. wouldn't the state cut all other jobs if it lost a fifth of the land that generates its economy? perhaps the comparison is too graphic, but this is the state of affairs we are talking about after brexit. this is not only an economic challenge, but also a political one, as more countries, or a significant number of their citizens, are eager to follow in the footsteps of the united kingdom. in his messages, mr juncker seems to have sought a balance between nation states and supranational institutions: he said that the path to eu integration was not aimed at the united states of europe, he stressed the importance of voluntary solidarity in the refugee crisis, but also spoke of the need for greater integration in areas that until now have remained largely within the competence of national states. i was surprised by the call not to criticise the commission's work and not to seek its role in the challenges that arise. i believe that it is raising questions and answering them, rather than fearing responsibility, that can help solve europe's problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol amending the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons. following the rejection of accession to the eea agreement in 1992, the eu and switzerland signed a number of bilateral agreements. the agreement on the free movement of persons gave citizens of the contracting parties the right to enter, live and work in each other’s territories by reciprocally abolishing most of the restrictions. this agreement is the only one that did not automatically extend to new eu members, and a protocol thus needs to be signed whenever new countries become part of the eu. protocol iii was initiated after the accession of croatia in july 2013. the swiss referendum of 9 february 2014 “against mass immigration” sparked a reaction by the eu, with the suspension of bilateral negotiations on several subjects. on 4 march 2016 protocol iii was signed. under the protocol, for a period of seven years from its entry into force, switzerland may limit the access of croatian citizens to the labour market. during the last two years of this transition period, the restrictions must be accepted by the switzerland-eu joint committee. i fully welcome this decision of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons. following the accession of croatia to the eu in 2013, the preparation of protocol 1 on the free movement of persons was started. however, the protocol was suspended after an anti-immigration referendum in switzerland in 2014. however, in 2016, the eu and switzerland signed protocol 3 extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. i support protocol 3 because i believe it will bring economic, political and cultural benefits to both sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation on the free movement of persons, on the granting of the status of contracting party to the eu accession of the republic of croatia. the eu and its 28 member states are switzerland's most important partners, due to their geographical and cultural proximity and, in particular, their political and economic importance. the eu has concluded a wide range of agreements with switzerland, which has closer ties to it than any other country outside the european economic area (eea). switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner (after the united states, china and russia), and the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. over a million eu citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross the border every day to go to work. there are about 430 000 swiss citizens living in the eu. the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia has further expanded the single market (now comprising almost 505 million people) and made it an even more important partner for switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the i support the protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons, which should have been legally adjusted following croatia's accession to the eu. the aim of this agreement was to establish rules in the eu and switzerland equivalent to those laid down in community law, allowing entry, residence, work, self-employment, study, entitlement to social protection and access to the same living, employment and working conditions as nationals of that state. furthermore, the aim of the agreement was also to facilitate the provision of services in the territory of the parties to the agreement. the agreement contained certain transitional provisions, gradually allowing all eu and swiss residents to enjoy the right of free movement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment. the legal framework for the tss needs to be updated following the institutionalisation of the european council and its president brought about by the lisbon treaty. the main issue in the council decision on the tss was the institutionalisation of the standing practice of inviting the chair of parliament’s committee on employment and social affairs (empl) to the tss. in its interim report, adopted after the council decision, parliament called for this to be institutionalised. unfortunately, the council text did not refer to an invitation to be sent to the chair of the empl committee. the dutch presidency and the rapporteur worked on a solution to have an official letter from the council/commission to the president of the european parliament confirming the practice of inviting the chair of the empl committee to attend the tss. the outcome of the uk referendum postponed the formal letter. the slovak presidency ensured that the agreement would be adhered to and the letter sent to parliament’s president. i look forward to parliament’s involvement in the tss.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the 2003 council decision establishing the tripartite social summit was revised in the light of the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the emergence of the presidency of the european council. the tripartite summit on growth and employment aims to ensure continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners, in accordance with the treaty and with due regard for the powers of the union institutions and bodies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the one that gave parliament its support for the council decision on the tripartite social summit on growth and employment. one of the eu's objectives is to create a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress. the union must therefore take into account the social dimension of its policies and actions, in particular the requirements relating to the promotion of high employment, the provision of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, and the high level of education, training and protection of human health, when defining and implementing those policies and actions. in its conclusions of 2013, the european council noted the need to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union and underlined the crucial role of the social partners and social dialogue in this regard. the commission has examined the issue of promoting social dialogue at national and eu level and concluded that the summit is an opportunity to involve the social partners in the european semester process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep's preliminary report on the tripartite social summit on growth and employment. in the light of the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the emergence of the presidency of the european council, the council decision establishing the tripartite social summit needs to be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations on the directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. at first reading, parliament supported a uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union in view of ensuring a high—level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation through cesni (the european committee for drawing up of common standards in the field of inland navigation). parliament and the council agreed on the overall aim of the directive but diverged on how to adapt the annexes to the technical standards. after the trilogue negotiations, a compromise solution was reached on 17 march 2016. in april, parliament’s committee on transport and tourism (tran) approved the compromise solution. following the committee’s approval, the chair of the tran committee, in his letter to the committee of permanent representatives, indicated that he would recommend to the plenary that it approve the council’s position at first reading without amendments. i welcome the decision of the council to adopt its first reading position confirming the agreement of 17 march 2016.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. in order to ensure consistency with other eu legislation, in particular directive 2014/94/eu on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure, parliament called for the adoption of delegated acts laying down technical requirements for liquefied natural gas-powered vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the agreement reached by parliament and the council on the future directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the general objective of the directive is to establish a harmonised and consistent system to ensure a uniform level of safety for inland waterway vessels. the use of resources to develop technical standards and to adapt them to scientific and technical progress through standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni, should also be rationalised.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eu and the sadc epa states. on 11 june 2016, the eu and six members – botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland – of the southern african development community (sadc) signed the economic partnership agreement (epa). angola is the only country that is not part of the epa, but as provided for in a clause of the agreement, may join in the future. the objectives of the agreement are: a) eradication of poverty through a trade partnership; b) promotion of regional integration; c) gradual integration of the sadc epa states into the world economy; d) to improve the sadc epa states’ capacity in trade policy; e) to support conditions for increasing investments and f) strengthening existing relations between the parties on the basis of solidarity and mutual interest. it is important to stress that on market access, the epa will give the sadc countries duty-free access to the eu market. although south africa will not receive duty free access, an improved offer will be proposed. overall, i welcome the epa which will liberalise 86% of trade with the eu in 20 years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between the eu and the acp-eu states. in 2013, the eu imported eur 31 billion worth of goods from the acp eac countries and exported eur 33 billion worth of goods to the acp countries. it is clear that the economic partnership agreement (epa) offers the opportunity to bring about substantial positive changes and contributes to sustainable economic growth in the southern african development community (sadc) and the eu. i welcome the flexibility and safeguard clauses in the agreement, particularly those relating to trade and sustainable development, which can help to secure a mutually beneficial agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the southern african development community (sadc) countries, of the other part. the sac shall consist of 15 members. seven of these have entered into epa negotiations with the eu as the acp epa group angola, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa. south africa initially participated as an observer and in a supporting role, but formally joined the negotiations in 2007. the eu and the cfsp are underpinned by the southern african customs union (sacu) the oldest customs union in the world. by joining the group, mozambique and angola were seeking to extend their already strong economic and trade links with the southern african customs union. the other eight acp member states (the democratic republic of the congo, madagascar, malawi, mauritius, seychelles, tanzania, zambia and zimbabwe) participate in the regional epas of other formations.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's report on the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eu and the southern african development community (sadc). this agreement will ensure substantial positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth, as well as to the development of intra-african trade and integration. however, the trade and partnership agreement can only be a small part of a larger strategy. the acp states should pursue trade and development-friendly domestic policies and continue structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the agreement on the implementation of the work in fishing convention. workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering the special characteristics of work on board of fishing vessels: the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases in a hazardous working environment and the unclear distinction between work hours, rest and leisure. to date, only eight countries have ratified the ilo work in fishing convention. since the agreement applies to all fishers employed on board of a fishing vessel, which is registered in, or flying the flag of, an eu member state and which is engaged in commercial fishing operations, i support this resolution of the european parliament which recommends the immediate adoption of the council directive implementing the work in fishing convention of the international labour organisation (ilo).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the agreement on the implementation of the convention on employment in the fisheries sector. given the specificities of work on board fishing vessels, the high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents and the risk and frequency of occupational diseases, the hazardous working conditions compared to the rest of the sector, the unclear definition of working hours, rest and leisure, the impact on health and safety of fatigue partly caused by lack of rest, the prevalence of informal and non-standard working relationships and pay arrangements, it is necessary to ensure agreement between the social partners. i therefore agree that these provisions on wages, social protection and social insurance need to be improved in order to ensure a fair income for workers and their families, including in the event of injury, accident or death.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by parliament on the implementation of the agreement on the convention on work in the fisheries sector. in view of the specific nature of work on fishing vessels, the high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents and the risk and frequency of occupational diseases, the hazardous working conditions compared to other sectors, the unclear definition of working, resting and leisure hours, the health and safety effects of fatigue caused in part by lack of rest, the existence of informal and non-standard employment relationships and pay arrangements, including crew-sharing systems, the ilo adopted in 2007 a convention on labour in the fisheries sector. however, so far only 8 countries have ratified the ilo convention on work in the fishing sector (no. 188), of which only two eu countries - france and estonia - have done so. the european parliament believes that the eu and its member states should play a leading role in promoting fair wages and working conditions in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things: the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels; the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases, in comparison with other sectors, in a hazardous working environment; also, the unclear distinction between work hours, rest and leisure, and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting, in part, from insufficient rest required to implement specific rules on work in the fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution calling on the member states to implement the convention on employment in the fisheries sector. this convention is important in ensuring acceptable standards of working conditions for fishermen. i believe that fisheries workers need special protection, given the specific nature of work on board fishing vessels, the high number of fatalities and other accidents, the risk of occupational diseases compared to other sectors, and the lack of a clear definition of working hours, rest and leisure, taking into account the effects of fatigue, the prevalence of informal and non-standard employment relationships and pay arrangements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the events of the past year in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the suspension of the constitutional tribunal in poland and the refusal of the polish government to publish its decisions are a threat to democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. the high level of concern among polish citizens about the restriction of democracy at home is also evident. i therefore support the commission's determination to find a rapid solution to the threat to polish democracy.
in writing. to seek constructive and effective dialogue with the polish government with a view to finding concrete solutions rapidly.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context. tunisia is currently facing a difficult socio-economic situation and threats to security deriving mostly from the situation in libya. the european parliament renews its commitment to the tunisian people and the democratisation process that began in 2011 and emphasises the need to support the people’s representative assembly (pra) given the fragile regional context. it welcomes the establishment of an eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee and the commission proposal for a macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. the eu has also started negotiations on an ambitious trade agreement with tunisia. this agreement has not only a trade dimension, but also contributes to extending european standards in the field of environment, consumer protection and worker rights to tunisia. with regard to security, the report calls on the tunisian government to set up a strategy to deal with returning foreign fighters and welcomes the launch, in november 2015, of the european union programme of support for security sector reform in tunisia.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the current regional context of eu relations with tunisia. the reasons for the mass demonstrations of the population that began in 2011 were the lack of jobs and opportunities. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and other serious crimes, including the use of chemical weapons. tunisia is currently hosting more than one million displaced libyans who have fled instability and violence in libya. for these reasons, i agree with the need to implement reforms in tunisia that are necessary for its social and economic well-being and the need for the eu and the member states to pool and better coordinate the considerable technical and financial resources to provide concrete support to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's view on the eu's relations with tunisia in the current regional context. under the european neighbourhood policy, the european union considers tunisia to be one of the priority countries. the peaceful transition to democracy in tunisia is a success story in the arab world and its consolidation is crucial for the stability of the entire region and has direct implications for european security. the tunisian national dialogue quartet was awarded the nobel peace prize in 2015 for its crucial contribution to the establishment of a pluralistic democracy in tunisia. tunisia is currently facing a difficult socio-economic situation and is also facing security challenges, in particular as a result of the situation in libya. these circumstances and the terrorist attacks in the country have had a significant negative impact on tourism, the most important sector of the tunisian economy. parliament therefore urges the eu and the member states to pool and better coordinate the considerable technical and financial resources to provide concrete support to tunisia. the union shall ensure that the union's financial interests are protected by the union's macro-financial assistance, including by the union's macro-financial assistance, and shall ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is in line with the union's macro-financial assistance. parliament therefore calls for a genuine, comprehensive and inclusive partnership between the eu and tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament renews its commitment to the tunisian people and the political transition process that began in 2011. however it is important to stress that reforms are needed to achieve social and economic prosperity and security. the eu and the member states are urged to mobilise and better coordinate substantial technical and financial resources in order to provide concrete support for tunisia because without measures to strengthen tunisia’s absorption capacity and stability, democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption, economic development and employment in the region, any prospect of reform will be put at risk.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the ep on the eu's relations with tunisia in the current regional context. i support the report's provisions on tunisia's role in the fight against terrorism and calls for greater opportunities for education, social and economic development so that tunisian youth are more resilient to the temptations of extremist groups. the report covers key political reforms in tunisia, their progress, economic and social development, security and defence issues, and outlines guidelines for cooperation in the fields of mobility, research, education and culture.
in writing. i welcome the establishment of the eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee, which will play a very important role in ensuring that meps and tunisians meet regularly and develop a structured political dialogue on democracy, human rights, the rule of law and any other subject of mutual interest.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the eu. the european union was planned by its architects as a democratic space endowed with a strong economy and a high level of social protection. however, the harmonisation of social rights was often neglected and this resulted in situations of unfair economic and social competition, which also represent an obstacle to maintaining a high level of social standards in the member states. the eu authorities have become aware of this issue and the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, made a solemn commitment to fight against ‘social dumping’. in his 2015 state of the union address, he also stated he wishes to avoid ‘abuses and risks of social dumping’. therefore, i welcome this report which proposes to strengthen controls and inspections, at both national and european level, in application of existing legislation. it is important to modernise the registration of employment benefits and develop a single digital document guaranteeing social rights for every european worker, as well as to adopt measures in order to ensure social convergence in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union. the growing pattern of abuse and social dumping in europe weakens the support for the internal market and the competitiveness of businesses, especially smes, undermines european workers' rights and undermines confidence in european integration, and therefore requires social convergence in the sectors of agriculture, construction, catering and food, transport, care and household services. i therefore support further action which is necessary to ensure social convergence in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the first time parliament had spoken out against social dumping in the eu. the report states that a competitive advantage for firms in our common european union market, if it is obtained at the cost of unfair practices or the exploitation of workers, should be absolutely intolerable. such practices generate poverty and exclusion in some member states, conflict within the european union and divide the eu. unfair practices and exploitation of workers must be tackled by various means: by strengthening labour inspections, including in cross-border cases, by combating the shadow economy, illegal work, false economy, tax avoidance and all the other things that undermine mutual trust between eu member states and threaten our common market and the free movement of workers.
in writing. i call on the commission to coordinate and strengthen cooperation between national authorities on road transport legislation, including through the exchange of information and other actions to support the implementation of legislation and to ensure a level playing field for operators. i welcome the launch of the european platform against undeclared work and the objectives it has set for strengthening cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a commission delegated regulation of 30 june 2016 supplementing key information documents for retail packaged investment products and insurance-based investment products (mipps and dips) with regulatory technical standards on the presentation, content, review and refinement of key information documents and the conditions for the submission of such documents. it is essential that information provided to consumers on investment products is comparable in order to create a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the financial intermediary that issues or distributes them. similarly, the exclusion of credit risk from the calculation of the risk breakdown by category of insurance products would be misleading to investors. i agree with parliament's objection to the commission's delegated regulation and call on the commission to submit a new delegated act to address the concerns raised.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it raises parliament's objections to the commission's delegated act on packages of retail investment products and the key information document for insurance-based investment products. the parliament considers that it is essential that information on investment products be comparable for consumers in order to create a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the financial intermediary issuing or distributing them. however, excluding credit risk from the calculation of the risk breakdown of insurance products by category would be misleading to investors. the delegated act adopted by the commission has shortcomings in forecasting future performance scenarios and therefore does not comply with the requirement to provide accurate, fair, clear and non-misleading information laid down in regulation (eu) no 1286/2014, in particular because even adverse scenarios for some mipps and imps, as well as information on products that consistently lose money when invested within the shortest recommended timeframe, do not indicate that investors could lose money.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the ep's report, as it is essential that information provided to consumers about investment products is comparable in order to create a level playing field in the market, regardless of which financial intermediary issues or distributes them.
thank you, mr president, and thank you to the rapporteurs laura aguirre for their work. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we really must finally face up to the reality of how our people, our citizens of the european union, live. and look, the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion, instead of going down by 20 million as we had ambitiously committed, has gone up by several million. in some countries, employment levels have not yet returned to pre-crisis levels. in some member states, the proportion of young people who are not in education or training exceeds 20%, and the proportion of those who are out of school is 23%. i'm not talking about children living in poverty anymore. and in this context it is indeed very difficult to understand why the council ignores the proposals of the european parliament on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. you think you can do it alone, but you can't. life and results are really bad, which is a different story. i therefore strongly urge that we all work together - the council, the commission and the european parliament - because only in this way can we achieve concrete results in improving the lives of our people and creating quality jobs. thank you!
in writing. more than 120 million europeans are currently facing poverty due to factors such as long-term unemployment, low wages and weakening social protection systems, particularly in the countries most affected by the crisis. it is not normal for people to earn more than they need to support their families. economic growth has not reduced poverty and social exclusion by itself, poverty increases with age and minimum income protects the most vulnerable. minimum income schemes are an important and effective way of overcoming poverty, supporting social integration and access to the labour market and enabling people to live in decent conditions. i would also point out that even minimum income schemes during austerity should be seen not as a cost-increasing factor but as a key crisis-management tool, as early poverty-reduction investments have the greatest benefit in reducing long-term societal costs. in order to fulfil the commitment of the europe 2020 strategy to end the threat of poverty or exclusion for at least 20 million people in the european union, the commission must therefore take concrete action and propose solutions that ensure a europe-wide minimum income in the fight against poverty. i would just like to remind you once again that commission president juncker, in his inaugural address, mentioned the need to ensure a 'decent income' for all europeans, but the eu strategy remains unclear. so how does the commission define 'fair income' and what are its characteristics?
on behalf of the s&d group thank you, chairman. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, renate weber, for her excellent report and for our cooperation. in fact, this directive affects each and every one of us in the european union, each and every one of our citizens in the european union - young or old, disabled or not, male or female. it is particularly important to recognise that demographic changes in europe, as well as the increase in the retirement age, are making age discrimination in employment more relevant. therefore, if we are already taking decisions in the member states to increase the retirement age, we must ensure that our seniors have every possible opportunity to remain in the labour market as full-fledged employees. i also want to urge the member states to ensure that older workers are protected against unfair dismissal in the case of retirement age, because the rights of older workers are often violated in the member states. another point i would like to make is that we are still failing to protect the most vulnerable members of society, the disabled, from discrimination. some member states are in fact in breach of this directive by failing to adapt jobs to disabled people, by failing to provide adequate living and quality working conditions, by failing to ensure equal opportunities in education and vocational training. we must therefore again call on the member states to make use of the structural funds to adapt workplaces and provide the necessary support for disabled people at work. we also have to deal with the problem of harassment at work, which can arise for a variety of reasons - both because of gender and because of age, because of religious beliefs, which offends against human dignity, which is degrading, and finally because it is really difficult for the employee to work in such a work environment. i therefore believe that it is very important to spread information and to carry out information campaigns to inform people about their rights and opportunities at work and in the labour market, and about the responsibilities of employers towards their employees. many of our citizens do not even know what rights are covered by this directive. thank you!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the european globalisation adjustment fund has indeed helped people across europe who have lost their jobs, and its support has been very significant, especially during the economic and financial crisis, when different industrial sectors in most member states were experiencing severe difficulties and people were losing their jobs en masse. in my home country of lithuania, for example, four sectors benefited from the fund's support: construction, textiles, electronics and furniture. and that meant a lot to our small labor market and to its recovery. as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to point out in this report that only one third of the beneficiaries of the fund during the period under review were women. of course, this is probably due to the fact that globalisation and the financial and economic crisis have hit those sectors where men are the most employed, but i would ask the commission to continue to monitor that women are not disadvantaged in the allocation of the fund's support, so that the harmonised package of individual services for women who have lost their jobs is really tailored to their real needs. it also calls on the member states to collect data by gender to better assess the rates of women's return to the labour market and to monitor the sectors in which they return. it is particularly important to know whether women are in secure quality employment and whether their entrepreneurship is equally encouraged.
author. – mr president, we are having this urgency debate on the situation in the philippines since new evidence about extrajudicial executions and killings taking place in that country in the context of an intensified anti-crime and anti-drug campaign is shocking. actions taken by the government look unacceptable from the perspective of international conventions on human rights the philippines have ratified, especially as president duterte has repeatedly urged law enforcement agencies and the public to kill suspected drug traffickers who do not surrender, as well as drug users. president duterte has even publicly stated that he would not pursue law enforcement officers and citizens who killed drug dealers who resisted arrest. thousands of people have already been killed by police and vigilante armed groups. president duterte should understand that he cannot continue like this in the future. the un secretary general and the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial and arbitrary executions have denounced the series of extrajudicial killings as illegal and a breach of fundamental rights and freedoms. we, the european parliament, urge the government of the philippines to put an end to the current wave of extrajudicial executions and killings and bring those responsible to justice. we also urge the european union to use all available instruments to assist the government of the philippines in respecting its international obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of a new european commissioner. following the uk's vote to leave the eu in june, the country's eu commissioner for financial services, jonathan hill, has decided to resign. the uk government then proposed to the european commission a diplomat, julian king.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the return of those who do not qualify for international protection within the eu must be a priority for the european union. improving the rate of returns for irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu’s asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries, and for maintaining the confidence of eu citizens. it is important that, by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce bureaucracy, variation, costs, and waiting periods, and will hopefully increase recognition of the document by third countries. the eu shall also ensure higher technical and security standards, in particular as regards safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the return of european travel documents to third-country nationals illegally present in the eu. in view of the current complex situation of the migrant crisis and the pressure on member states and eu agencies, it is necessary to increase the number of returns of irregular migrants. this is essential to ensure the integrity of the eu asylum system and the cooperation between eu member states and third countries, and to preserve the trust of eu citizens. however, the eu is faced with document forgery and third countries are reluctant to recognise documents. i therefore agree that the eu must ensure the technical and security standards of eu travel documents and, in order to speed up procedures, translate travel documents into both eu languages and the relevant third country language.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's position on the return of european travel documents to third-country nationals illegally present in the eu. the return of persons who are not eligible for international protection in the eu must be a priority for the european union. increasing the number of returns of irregular migrants is vital to ensure the integrity of the eu asylum system and the cooperation between eu member states and third countries, and to preserve the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution is needed to stabilise the current migrant crisis, to reduce the pressure on member states and eu agencies, and to increase capacity and resources within the eu. the eu cannot continue to apply the current scale of returns of persons who are not eligible for asylum. the current eu standard travel document needs to be fundamentally revised in terms of both its format and its implementation in order to increase its recognition by third countries and its effectiveness. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, inconsistencies, costs and waiting times and are expected to encourage greater recognition by third countries.
in writing. ‒ the return of persons who cannot claim international protection in the eu must be a priority for the european union. increasing the number of returns of irregular migrants is vital to ensure the integrity of the eu asylum system and the cooperation between eu member states and third countries, and to preserve the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution is needed to stabilise the current migrant crisis, to reduce the pressure on member states and eu agencies, and to increase capacity and resources within the eu. the eu cannot continue to apply the current scale of returns of persons who are not eligible for asylum. the current eu standard travel document needs to be fundamentally revised in terms of both its format and its implementation in order to increase its recognition by third countries and its effectiveness. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, inconsistencies, costs and waiting times and are expected to encourage greater recognition by third countries.
in writing. the european return travel document should help to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on member states' and third countries' administrations, including consulates, and help to reduce the administrative procedures needed to carry out the return and readmission of illegally staying third-country nationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the prospectus notice, which must be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. the proposed purpose of the regulation is to establish the requirements for the drawing up, approval and distribution of the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market established in a member state. this means that the prospectus must contain the information necessary for investors to make an informed investment decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's position on the regulation on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. this regulation is one of the key steps towards completing the capital markets union described in the 2015 communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions 'an action plan for the capital markets union'. the purpose of the capital markets union is to help businesses access more diverse sources of capital across the european union (the 'union'), to make markets work more efficiently and to offer investors and savers additional opportunities to invest their money to stimulate growth and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. prospectuses published when securities are offered to investors or admitted to trading will become simplified and cheaper, in order to help businesses, especially smes, to find diverse sources of capital across the eu. the uniform rules for prospectuses and the information they disclose will protect investors while creating an efficient single market for capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation because they are one of the most important steps towards completing the capital markets union. the purpose of the capital markets union is to enable businesses to tap into a wider variety of sources of capital across the european union (hereinafter the union), to ensure that markets operate more efficiently and to offer investors and savers additional opportunities to invest their money in order to stimulate growth and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council proposal concerning provisional measures in favour of italy and greece. the objective of the council proposal is to amend council decision (eu) 2015/1601 to relocate people in need of international protection from italy and greece. in the framework of the existing commitments under eu—turkey cooperation in the field of migration, the proposal responds to the need for further measures on resettlement to turkey. the 54 000 relocation places provided for will now be available for the purpose of resettling syrians from turkey in the eu through the 1:1 scheme. pursuant to the proposed amendment, the eu member states may meet their commitments by admitting syrians to their territory directly from turkey. important points are that the number of resettled syrians would be deducted from member states’ relocation quotas, and that each member state which uses this facility would receive the sum of eur 6 500 per person.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of italy and greece. this amendment allows member states to subtract from their allocation of relocations to the european union the number of syrians in turkey admitted to their territory in the context of eu relocation, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission under national or multilateral programmes other than the eu relocation programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the member states had already pledged to receive a share of 160 000 asylum seekers relocated from greece and italy. a part of the total allocation (54 000) was kept as a reserve, this was originally intended for hungary but was unused. the commission decided to use the 54 000 relocation allocation for the resettlement of syrians from turkey, as this meant that the distribution between member states had already been effected and no new legal instrument had to be created.
in writing. given the current number of asylum seekers in greece and the increasing number of asylum seekers arriving in italy, i believe that there will remain a high demand for urgent relocation places.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the report express the regrets of the european parliament with regard to the decision of the council to ignore the ep legislative resolution of 8 july 2015 and stresses that the european parliament position must be taken into consideration. at present 120 million union citizens, namely around a quarter of the total of the union population, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i believe that the european union is in need of holistic policies and public investments that will fight against unemployment and poverty. the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased by five million, the employment rate in some countries has not yet recovered the pre-crisis level, while in some member states the rate of young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets) is above 20 per cent and the rate of early school leavers is up to 23 per cent. i support the guidelines that shall be taken into account by the member states in their employment policies and reform programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides that member states and the union shall work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment in order to achieve the objectives of the treaty on european union. the five key objectives constitute common objectives underpinning the member states' action and taking into account the different starting positions and national circumstances of the member states and those of the union. i agree with the analysis of the member states' national reform programmes in the joint employment report, which shows that member states should continue to make every effort in the priority areas of increasing labour market participation, reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce adapted to labour market needs, promoting good quality of work and lifelong learning, improving the functioning of education and training systems at all levels, increasing participation in higher education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and the council to respect the principle of good governance and to take due account of parliament's position on the guidelines for national employment policies. unfortunately, today, six years after the launch of the europe 2020 strategy, we can say that we have not achieved the objectives of the strategy and that the current developments are of great concern. the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased by five million instead of the expected 20 million, employment rates in some countries have not yet returned to pre-crisis levels, and in some member states the proportion of young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets) is above 20% and the proportion of out-of-school people is 23%. not to mention the growing number of children living in poverty, which in the long run paints a similarly bleak picture. i therefore call on the commission and the council to come together and work together so that people in europe have quality work and no longer face poverty, either for themselves or for their children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. economic policy guidelines and employment guidelines were introduced by the lisbon treaty and were first adopted by the council in 2010. whilst the broad economic policy guidelines remain valid for any duration of time, the employment guidelines need to be drawn up each year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's report because i support its provisions encouraging member states to make greater efforts in formulating and implementing employment policies. i believe that the development of a skilled workforce that can adapt to the needs of the labour market, the promotion of job creation, lifelong learning and the improvement of the functioning of education and training systems at all levels are essential to ensure economic competitiveness and growth.
in writing. these new integrated guidelines should be in line with the conclusions of the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the strategic objectives of the eu for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016. cites is the most important existing global wildlife conservation agreement, signed by 181 countries, including the eu and its 28 member states. as the eu is participating in cities for the first time as a party to the convention, i support the eu's accession to cities and consider this accession to be a very important step in ensuring that the eu continues to pursue the broader objectives of its environmental policy and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to promote the sustainable development policy of the un 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke about the main objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to cites. cites is the most important existing global wildlife conservation agreement, signed by 181 countries, including the eu and its 28 member states. cites aims to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of species in the wild. according to the red list of threatened species of the international union for conservation of nature and natural resources (iucn), more than 23 000 species are threatened with extinction, representing about 30% of the 79 837 species assessed by the iucn. parliament welcomes the recently adopted eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade, which aims to prevent such trade by addressing its root causes, improving the implementation and enforcement of existing rules and combating organised wildlife crime more effectively. parliament also welcomed the inclusion in the action plan of a specific chapter on strengthening the global partnership between countries of origin, consumption and transit in the fight against illegal wildlife trade. parliament also urged the eu and its member states to adopt and implement a more stringent action plan to demonstrate europe's strong commitment to combating illegal trade in wild fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ cites is the most important existing global wildlife conservation agreement, signed by 181 countries. in view of the upcoming meeting of these countries this year, the ep has drafted a resolution that identifies the main challenges for wildlife conservation and sets out the political guidelines to ensure that international trade in wildlife does not threaten the survival of species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. the revision of postal services in 2008 achieved key objectives in terms of the liberalisation of european postal services. however, postal services have undergone dramatic changes due to the growth of e-commerce. postal services are a vital part of communication in the eu internal market, and this sector remains a fundamental contributor to social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. sectors such as e—commerce, publishing, mail order, insurance, banking and advertising depend heavily on the postal infrastructure. one of the commission’s core tasks is to promote and safeguard effective competition in the postal services sector. promoting more competition in this sector is also important in reaching the europe 2020 goals for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the application of the postal services directive. the 2008 postal review has achieved the main objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. however, since the full opening of the postal services market in 2008, the postal services sector has undergone a major transformation. on the one hand, there was a decrease in paper notifications in many member states, i.e. the number of letters in 2012-2013 decreased by an average of 4.85% in all 28 eu member states. on the other hand, new technologies have made it easier to shop online, which has led to an increase in the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal service providers. as a result, more than half of the total revenue of the postal sector now comes from parcel and express transportation. over the past five years, the business-to-consumer segment of the parcel and parcel delivery markets has grown rapidly as a result of the expansion of e-commerce, and competition in these markets, while fully open across the eu, has developed slowly. i therefore agree that the commission's main tasks remain to promote and protect effective competition in the postal services sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's assessment of the application of the postal services directive. the 2008 postal review has achieved the main objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. however, since the full opening of the postal services market in 2008, the postal services sector has undergone major changes. on the one hand, paper-based notifications have decreased in many member states. in 2012-13, the number of letters across the eu fell by 4.85% on average in the 28 eu member states. on the other hand, new technologies are making it easier to shop online, which is increasing the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal service providers. as a result, more than half of the total revenue of the postal sector now comes from parcel and express transportation. over the past five years, the business-to-consumer segment of the parcel and parcel delivery markets has grown rapidly as a result of the expansion of e-commerce, and competition in these markets, while fully open across the eu, has developed slowly.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the ep's report on the application of the postal services directive. one of the main objectives of the directive is to promote and protect effective competition in the postal services sector. accessibility and reliability of postal and parcel delivery remain essential for the common market. postal services cover a wide range of services, from the dispatch of letters and parcels to the provision of value-added services. other sectors such as e-commerce, publishing, mail order, insurance, banking and advertising are highly dependent on postal infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of smes’ funding in a capital markets union. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has, therefore, been a long-standing theme on the policy agenda. bank lending constitutes still the most important source of funding for the large majority of smes. therefore, it is important to diversify the funding options for smes to allow for a wide range of choices. i welcome the proposals made in the capital market unions (cmu) action plan for connecting smes more effectively with a wide range of funding options and i support the initiative of the commission to examine and assess barriers and obstacles for smes in tapping capital markets.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme funding in the capital markets union. during the crisis, access to finance for smes was more limited than for larger companies. this was driven by the high reliance of smes on bank lending and the decline in bank lending caused by the crisis. the diversification of sme financing opportunities has therefore become one of the priorities of the cmu initiative. i am in favour of making it easier for smes to access a range of financing options. however, there are still many barriers to smes accessing market-based and other more innovative financing instruments. i therefore support the commission's initiative to examine and assess the obstacles to smes' access to capital markets. the analysis would remove various restrictive obstacles in a timely and appropriate manner.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the parliament's view on access to finance for smes and on increasing the diversity of sme finance in the capital markets union. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps play an important role in the european economy in terms of jobs and growth. in the eu's non-financial business sector, smes employed 67% of all employees, created 71.4% of new jobs and added 58% of value in 2014. currently, there is no clear common definition of smes in union law, except for the categories 'small enterprises' and 'medium enterprises' defined under the accounting directive. smes in europe are very diverse, with a large number of micro-enterprises, often operating in traditional sectors, as well as a growing number of new start-ups and fast-growing innovative companies. these business models encounter different problems and therefore have different financial needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and mid-caps form a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has therefore been a long-standing theme on the policy agenda. therefore, i welcome the recognition of the importance of bank funding for smes in the commission’s capital market unions (cmu) initiative. nevertheless, it is important to diversify the funding options for smes to allow for a wide range of choices.
in writing. ‒ european smes generate more than half of eu gdp, employ some 75 million people and are a vital link between the private sector of the economy and local production. i therefore support the report prepared by the ep which provides policy guidelines to increase access to finance for smes.
in writing. i welcome the various initiatives underway to improve access to standardised and transparent credit information for smes, which can increase investor confidence.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on harnessing job creation potential for smes. unemployment and migration flows are the biggest challenges facing europe at the moment. therefore, for eu member states it is crucial to strengthen the conditions for new job creation. the european economic structure is mainly based on smes, which are a heterogeneous group and there is a diversity of small business models. the report underlines that for achieving a sound environment for business development and boosting its job creation potential, national and european policies must as a priority address the issues of skills, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens. it highlights the necessity of ensuring a level playing field for the smes regarding their competitive position compared with large corporations. in this regard, there is a need for specific measures for smes in order to curb their market diseconomies, enabling their internationalisation and boosting their job creation potential.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on how best to exploit the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the unemployment rate across the eu remains the highest in its history. in 2015, there were 23 million unemployed in the eu, including 4.5 million men and women under 25 who were not working or studying. the arrival of hundreds of thousands of new migrants is another huge social challenge, as more and more jobs are needed to properly integrate people settling in europe. i believe that smes should be given the highest priority in the european union and that all necessary steps should be taken to enhance the job creation potential of this sector. i therefore agree that it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for smes in relation to their competitive position vis-à-vis large enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report because it is a report in which parliament has spoken about better job creation opportunities for smes. smes create more jobs than other private sector enterprises, employing around two thirds of all people in the eu private sector, thus making a significant contribution to the eu's social and economic growth and development. support to smes helps to combat unemployment and youth unemployment in europe, which are at 8,9% and 19,4% respectively, which is particularly important given the unemployment rate around 23 million people in 2015 which remains at historic highs to date. in the parliament's view, in order to improve the conditions for the creation of quality jobs in the sme sector, member states and the commission need to address the following problems, which are not equally prevalent in different member states and regions: skills shortages, mis-assessment of future skills needs, skills mismatches, brain drain, unnecessary regulatory burden and regulatory uncertainty in all areas, insufficient dialogue between labour market stakeholders, limited access to finance and public procurement, low innovation capacity and access to new technologies, insufficient support for smes in the implementation of public investment policies, the shadow economy and even fraud, as well as the highly advantageous position of multinational corporations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. unemployment and migration flows are the biggest challenges facing europe at the moment, with multiple implications for the future. high unemployment threatens demographic perspectives, as many young people without work delay starting a family. as a longer term consequence, this situation puts pressure on social security systems and pension schemes, threatening also the future of the current generation. the report emphasises the importance of a stable regulatory environment, improved regulation quality and enforcement, as the right way to lower smes burdens, including labour costs. this is an essential prerequisite for the permanence of jobs and for the smes’ potential to create high quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the i support the report drawn up by the ep to encourage better use of job creation opportunities in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the communication identifies a number of existing problems facing smes and identifies the most important priority measures to address these problems. for example, the report emphasises the importance of stable and improved regulatory quality and enforcement as one of the ways to reduce labour costs. the communication also welcomes in particular the further development of vocational training to promote work-based learning and apprenticeships. the communication stresses, inter alia, the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in relation to their competitive position vis-à-vis large enterprises.
in writing. i welcome the shift towards financial instruments to support smes, but i believe that grant funding should continue to be provided where it is essential and necessary to stimulate innovation, development and research, which are crucial to job creation and to ensuring europe's economic success in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the application of the employment equality directive. the employment equality directive, whose ultimate objective is the creation of a level playing field as regards equality in employment and occupation, was adopted 15 years ago. the report underlines that some eu member states go beyond the requirements of the employment equality directive, not limiting the protection against discrimination based on religion and belief, disability, age and sexual orientation to employment, occupation and vocational training. however, challenges to the implementation of the employment equality directive still exist, since some groups and minorities in the eu have reported experiencing discrimination. this situation has a negative impact on social cohesion, as well as on respect for fundamental rights. i welcome the report as it stresses the importance of raising awareness among public opinion and the need to increase dialogue among governments, civil society and the social partners across all grounds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the directive on equal opportunities in employment. according to the european commission, the number of people of working age (15-64 years) in the eu has started to decline, and the proportion of the population aged 65 and over is projected to increase from 87 million to 152 million between 2010 and 2060. in view of this future need, i agree that there is a need to ensure more active participation in the labour market, long-term income and better work-life balance, including family care. the role of the organisation of long-term care services in society and in the labour market must be of great importance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because this equal opportunities directive in the field of employment affects the daily lives of everyone - young people, disabled people, the elderly. it is particularly important to recognise that demographic changes in europe, as well as the increase in the retirement age, are making age discrimination in employment more relevant. therefore, if we are already extending the retirement age, we must ensure that our seniors have every possible opportunity to remain in the labour market as full-fledged employees. i would also like to urge member states to ensure that older workers are protected against unfair dismissal in the case of retirement age, as older workers' rights are more vulnerable. secondly, we are still unfortunately failing to protect the most vulnerable members of society - people with disabilities - from discrimination. some member states are in breach of this directive by failing to adapt jobs to disabled people, by failing to provide adequate living and quality working conditions, by failing to ensure equal opportunities in education and vocational training. we must therefore encourage member states to make use of the structural funds and adapt jobs and provide the necessary support for disabled people in the workplace. we cannot be indifferent to the most vulnerable groups in our society and to these problems, and i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to ensure better implementation of this directive on equal opportunities for all in the member states, as this directive should become a tool of everyday life for the member states, protecting and improving the lives of all people.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep report on the application of the equal opportunities in employment directive. discrimination affects all areas of people's lives, and employment is just one of them. although awareness of discrimination has improved, many victims of discrimination are still unaware of their rights or are afraid to take legal action against discriminatory practices due to various factors, such as complex and lengthy legal procedures.
in writing. i welcome the fact that all member states provide grants, subsidies or tax breaks, for example to employers who accommodate disabled people, and thus encourage employers to adapt workplaces and open labour market opportunities to disabled people, as well as to ensure that all persons can enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms on an equal basis with others.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european global adjustment fund (egf). initially the egf was established by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 to allow solidarity with workers who lost their jobs in large-scale redundancies because of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, where these redundancies have a significant adverse impact on the regional or local economy. the report underlines that the egf has undergone numerous reforms since 2006. i welcome the fact that the egf’s scope has been broadened in order to include self-employed persons and persons not in education, employment or training (neets) and that the period of intervention has been extended up to 24 months, thus allowing many beneficiaries to access more extended training or educational programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund 2007-2014. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the court of auditors presented a report on the operation, impact and added value of the egf in 2007-2014. the egf has been criticised for the use of large amounts of egf funds by some member states to offset national income support schemes for workers. the court considers that the use of eu funds in this case does not have an added value and that it is therefore essential that member states assess the added value of this type of support in particular. the long egp approval procedures have also been criticised. i agree with the court's recommendations that the eu institutions should consider the european social fund (esf) as an alternative to the egf, as it aims to address long-standing structural imbalances, in particular in the implementation of lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it provides parliament with an assessment of the european globalisation adjustment fund's performance in 2007-2014 and provides guidance for further improvements in the fund's performance. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support and show solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. parliament considers that the two-yearly and other reports are not sufficient to ensure full transparency and effectiveness of the egf. calls on the member states receiving egf support to make public all data and evaluations of the aid cases and to include a gender impact assessment in the evaluation of the aid cases, and strongly encourages all member states to make public their applications and final reports in a timely manner as provided for in the current regulation. the evaluations of the egf show that the results of the egf interventions are influenced by factors such as the level of education and qualifications of the supporting workforce, the absorption capacity of the labour markets concerned and the gdp of the beneficiary countries. parliament stresses that such factors are mainly influenced by long-term measures that can be effectively supported by the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. on the whole the european globalisation adjustment fund has provided personalised and well-coordinated measures for redundant workers. it is very important that there is genuine involvement of the workers or their representatives, the social partners and other relevant stakeholders in drawing up the application. as the fund is a flexibility instrument it allows for innovative action and tailor-made interventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report assessing the activities of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the purpose of the egf is to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system.
in writing. i welcome the fact that many egf beneficiaries have been able to receive, in particular, personal assistance in finding a job, updating their skills through vocational training programmes and mobility allowances. i also welcome the fact that the egf has enabled some employees to start their own business by providing aid for the creation or takeover of businesses. i therefore stress that the egf has been found to have a significant positive impact on self-esteem, empowerment and motivation. i would stress that the egf has contributed to social cohesion by enabling people to return to work and avoiding the negative effects of unemployment.
in writing. – hunger and malnutrition are the epicentre of one of the biggest issues we have to fight today. one in six children are underweight for their age and even though since 1990 the amount of people being effected by malnutrition has halved, there are still millions of people not receiving enough food and water. the percentage of development assistance dedicated to malnutrition should be increased and coupled with long-term goals for prevention of hunger. more specifically, we should pay more attention to small farmers, who at this moment produce around 70% of the world’s food. increasing their potential yield and diversifying the seeds being grown gives the surrounding area not only short-term assistance but also the tools to combat malnutrition in the long run. in addition, toddlers and new-born babies are severely affected by malnutrition; this is impacted by the fact that breastfeeding is still not fully recognised as an acceptable and culturally—decent practice in many places. the ep report tackles this issue by calling on the eu for a worldwide campaign highlighting the importance of breastfeeding and its necessity for a growing baby.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the paris agreement is a major historic achievement in the fight against climate change and in the pursuit of multilateralism. i agree that the decision to ratify the paris agreement will underline the clear leadership of the eu and its member states and will make a significant contribution to the global fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the paris agreement on the united nations framework convention on climate change. the paris agreement is a major historic achievement in the fight against climate change and in the pursuit of multilateralism. this agreement is ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding. the adoption of an agreement at the end of cop 21 and the announcement by 187 countries of their envisaged nationally determined commitments (ndcs) represent a crucial shift towards comprehensive and collective global action, the implementation of which will undoubtedly and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate resilient and climate neutral global economy. this global action aims to steer global development in a way that avoids dangerous climate change. the agreement recognises the need to achieve a global greenhouse gas emissions ceiling as soon as possible and to neutralise climate impacts in the second half of this century. the agreement also provides for an ambitious set of solidarity measures, including appropriate provisions on the financing of climate action and on meeting the needs of adaptation to climate change and loss and damage caused by the adverse effects of climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the 2015 paris agreement is a historically significant landmark in the global fight against climate change. the paris agreement is a success for the world and a confirmation of the eu’s path towards a low—carbon economy. the eu’s negotiation strategy was decisive in reaching the agreement. the eu has pushed for ambition, bringing its experience of effective climate policy and tradition of negotiation and rules-based international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision to ratify the paris agreement on climate change. i think this will help to address the very important climate change issues at the international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation for the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. it is worth noting that this agreement is a crucial global step towards strengthening global collective action and accelerating the global shift towards low-carbon technologies and climate resilient societies. it is therefore essential that the agreement enters into force as soon as possible, as only through joint efforts can we strengthen the response to the threat of climate change and achieve the objectives set. in addition, the provisions of the agreement will create more opportunities to restructure the economy, create jobs and stimulate economic growth.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation. i think this is a historic moment in which the majority of members of the european parliament have shown that they understand that tackling climate change is necessary here and now. this step led to the entry into force of the paris agreement on climate change. now we need to focus and move from talk to action. we need to start thinking about the 2050 goals today and how we're going to achieve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european union solidarity fund to provide aid to greece following the 2015 earthquake in the ionian islands. this earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale. 120 dwellings were damaged, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. it is reported that there is considerable damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. i therefore support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance in response to the disaster in greece (the earthquake that struck the ionian islands region, in particular the islands of leucade and cephalonia), which occurred on 17 november 2015. this earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight were injured, and 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. it is reported that there is considerable damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. several of the most important beaches for the tourism sector in leukadia have been destroyed. the affected region is classified as 'less developed' under the provisions of the european structural and investment funds (2014-2020). the greek authorities have not notified the commission of their intention to reallocate funding under the esi fund programme and to allocate funds to recovery measures. the european parliament recommends that the commission's proposal for a decision accompanying this report be adopted without delay, in order to show solidarity with the affected regions of greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by natural disasters. on 5 february 2016, the commission received an application for the fund for financial assistance relating to a disaster in greece (earthquake affecting the ionian islands region, in particular the islands of lefkada and kefalonia) which had occurred on 17 november 2015. after careful consideration it was decided that greece meets the conditions for providing a financial contribution from the fund.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance to greece following the earthquake in the ionian islands region, in particular in the islands of leucade and cephalonia. the financial assistance will be used to rebuild the infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural objects damaged by the earthquake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to allocate funds to greece from the european union solidarity fund. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the need to use the fund arose following the earthquake in the ionian islands. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster in greece (earthquake that struck the region of the ionian islands, in particular the islands of leucade and cephalonia).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (reference egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft). the sharp decline in nokia's share of the mobile phone market has forced microsoft to cut 2,300 jobs in finland. this is a major shock for employees and has led microsoft to apply to the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. in view of the situation, i support the commission's proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for the needs of finland in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by microsoft.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft and 8 of its supply and downstream companies in finland, which are active in the field of computer programming, consultancy. the finnish authorities argue that the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft is the declining share of the company's telephone market. they link this reduction in the labour force to the major structural changes in world trade trends due to globalisation and recall that the eu's share of total ict jobs has decreased, while the corresponding shares of china and the usa have increased. while nokia dominated the mobile phone markets between 2000 and 2010, the android and ios operating systems used by various asian-based manufacturers have since taken a dominant position. the finnish authorities have indicated a trend affecting the entire finnish electronics industry and linked to the decline in market share of nokia, which sold its mobile phone operations to microsoft. in 2014, microsoft announced its plans to reduce its overall workforce by 18 000 jobs in 2015, including 1 100 jobs in finland, and in 2015 it announced plans to restructure its telephone business and to eliminate 2 300 jobs in finland as a result.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by the parliament in which we propose to allocate funds from the egf to finland to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by microsoft into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the sharp decline in nokia's share of the mobile phone market has forced microsoft to lay off 2,300 employees in finland. of these, 89% are aged between 30 and 54. the decline in the ict sector makes it difficult for these people to find employment. in these circumstances, microsoft applied to the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the finnish authorities started providing personalised services to the affected workers on 11 september 2015, i.e. well before the application for egf support for the proposed harmonised package of services was submitted, as these actions are eligible for financial support from the egf.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (report egf/2016/002 se/ericsson). the telecom equipment production line of ericsson, which was relocated to asia, has been made redundant by 1 556 workers. in order to ensure a faster return to the labour market of workers made redundant, sweden applied to the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. in view of the situation, i support the commission's proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for sweden in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by 'ericsson'.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in order to help sweden to support workers made redundant by the company 'telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson' in the computer, electronic and optical manufacturing sectors. the swedish trade union unione argues that ericsson is still hiring workers in europe, but only those with very different skills. the company does not normally re-employ workers with hardware manufacturing and development skills. the company's growth is currently mainly in software development. while some software is also developed in europe, the largest share of growth in this sector is in asia, where ericsson is expanding its activities. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers consist of four types of measures: (i) counselling and career guidance, divided into: comprehensive assessment and individual planning, career guidance and motivational counselling and career planning, (ii) sponsored and supported employment and rehabilitation measures, (iii) education and training, (iv) jobseeker's allowance.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's report proposing to allocate funds from the egf to help sweden support the reintegration of workers made redundant by the company telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson.
in writing. - i voted for this report. faced with difficulties and strong competition from asian producers, ericsson reduced its production of telecom equipment. in sweden, 1,556 workers were dismissed as a result. it should be stressed that the fact that a large group of older workers with similar education and experience are being dismissed at the same time makes it difficult for former employees to find a job after the dismissal, as they lack the skills needed for the local labour market. the amount of the unemployment allowance is eur 3 957 918.
in writing. many of the dismissed executives are engineers, some of them specialising in unique areas unique to ericsson, but i am pleased that the swedish public employment service has shown confidence that a package of tailored training programmes and mentoring will help many of these dismissed employees find new quality jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has forwarded a request for the waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, concerning the prosecutor of rethymno's intention to initiate proceedings for breach of trust in the performance of his duties criminal acts committed in collaboration with others in rethymno (crete) between 2000 and 2002. since the proceedings to be initiated are clearly unrelated to the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, since they relate to his previous duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete, i therefore agree to the waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself, in order to bring this lengthy judicial process to an end.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in connection with the proceedings concerning the alleged commission of a criminal offence. the process to be initiated is clearly unrelated to the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, since it relates to his previous duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete. this process is extended to cover the period 1996-2000 and includes the last meeting of the senate of the university of crete, attended by giorgos grammatikakis in his capacity as rector, at which the matter was discussed but no decision was taken. furthermore, there is no indication that the process initiated is aimed at causing political damage to the member of the european parliament concerned. parliament is surprised that the request for waiver of immunity is made some 20 years after the events in question and that the greek justice system has not been able to initiate proceedings against giorgos grammatikakis during this period and intends to do so now that he has become a member of the european parliament. it should be noted that such a slow justice system will never be truly just, since the persons involved are not the same as they were 20 years ago; since justice must be delivered in time to live up to its name. the european parliament therefore decides to waive the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by mr grammatikakis himself, in order to bring this lengthy judicial process to an end.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's proposal to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by the european parliament itself, in order to speed up the completion of the lengthy judicial process.
in writing. - i voted for the motion to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikis. the greek authorities intend to hold giorgos grammatikakis and others liable for failure to comply with certain legal obligations. the allegations are clearly unrelated to giorgos grammatikakis' status as a member of the european parliament. they relate to the activities of the member of parliament in his previous capacity as rector of the senate of the university of crete. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should review the legality of the measures taken by the member states in the field of the protection of the union's financial interests. clearly, such a delay is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons with restricted liberty and legal aid in the european arrest warrant procedure. the commission proposal is a welcome step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. however, the commission proposal does not enhance legal certainty, nor does it make clear to suspects or accused persons the extent to which they will be able to exercise their right to legal aid effectively and the quality of legal aid. i therefore agree that the scope of the directive should cover the right to temporary and ordinary legal aid in all cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the question of provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and with the question of legal aid measures in the context of the european arrest warrant procedure. the right to legal aid is a difficult issue and this may explain why it took the commission a relatively long time to present the current measure. however, this should not prevent the new european parliament from starting to consider the proposal for a directive on a priority basis. different interpretations of the right to a fair trial, including the right to legal aid, recognised, inter alia, in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and in article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, create obstacles to the exercise of fair and effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is therefore necessary to adopt the remaining measures of the action plan as soon as possible, in particular the draft legal aid directive. the commission proposal is a welcome step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. however, this proposal limits the right to provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings when deprived of liberty and the right to provisional legal aid and legal aid for requested persons subject to the european arrest warrant procedure. additional aspects of the right to legal aid are dealt with in a separate commission recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to set common minimum standards on the right to provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings when they are deprived of liberty and for provisional legal aid and legal aid for persons subject to proceedings. this proposal seeks to improve the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. having common minimum standards governing these rights should boost mutual trust between judicial authorities and thus facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition. a certain degree of compatibility between the legislation of member states is crucial to improve judicial cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the european commission's proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the same rules for legal aid for suspects or accused persons with restricted liberty and for legal aid in the european arrest warrant procedure should apply throughout the eu. these rules will strengthen the rights of suspects and accused persons and establish common minimum standards of due process. it should be noted that persons requested to be extradited in accordance with the european arrest warrant do not always have access to legal aid in the member states. moreover, despite the rights of suspects or accused persons, judicial cooperation is disproportionately affected. it is therefore essential to remove existing obstacles and to strengthen mutual trust between judicial authorities and to facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition. it should be noted that judicial cooperation must be based on mutual trust and confidence in different judicial systems.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it deals with provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and with legal aid measures in the context of european arrest warrant proceedings. different interpretations of the right to a fair trial, including the right to legal aid, recognised in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and in article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, create obstacles to the exercise of fair and effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is therefore necessary to adopt the remaining measures of the action plan as soon as possible, and in particular the draft legal aid directive.
in writing. a provision should be included in the directive to take into account as far as possible the preferences of suspects or accused persons and requested persons in the choice of a lawyer for legal aid and their wishes. the same shall apply to the need to continue legal representation if the suspect, accused or requested person so wishes.
in writing. ‒ the european union can be hailed as one of the leading champions in the fight against the practice of torture and execution, which is why it should demonstrate that quality throughout one of its biggest activities – trade. this report urges to close all the loopholes that are present in the current trade strategy that allows for pharmaceuticals to travel in and out of the eu, and that are then misused for the purpose of torture or execution (such as lethal injection). it enforces both annex ii and iii and establishes an urgency procedure or a ‘fast track,’ for future pharmaceuticals to be added to the lists of banned substances without a consequential delay. this report stresses the fact that in the case of other pharmaceuticals and medicines which are not on the list of possible torture and execution substances, their trade cannot and will not be hindered. this report is a milestone in europe’s fight against the death penalty and the use of torture throughout the world. it provides a solid basis for member states to work off and add on to, allowing the eu to uphold its values not only domestically but also internationally.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the eu's main instrument in the fight against torture and the death penalty is the 2005 rules on the control of trade in instruments of torture. they prohibit the export of goods (such as electric chairs, guillotines or automatic drug injection systems) and control the trade of goods that can be used for these purposes (such as tools or materials for riot control). in 2010, the european parliament called on the european commission to update the above rules, as certain legal loopholes allowed to avoid trade or advertising restrictions. in this context, and in the light of the european parliament's calls, i agree that it is necessary to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external policy measures to prevent the production, trade and use of goods for torture and to prohibit and effectively control goods that may be used for life-threatening and inhumane purposes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. eu-wide export controls are an instrument of external trade policy serving a variety of wider policy objectives. the torture regulation is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling goods and activities that are or could be misused for the purposes of capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture regulation contributes to the eu's long-term policy to abolish the death penalty and prevent torture worldwide. the regulation contributes to these objectives by combining prohibitions with the requirements for the issuing of marketing authorisations for specified commodities. it covers the prohibition of the sale of goods intended solely for torture and execution and the provision of related technical assistance and a system for the authorisation of goods for various uses which could be improperly used for torture and execution by lethal injection. it is therefore essential to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external policy measures to prevent the production, trade and use of goods for torture and to prohibit and effectively control goods that may be used for life-threatening and inhuman purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. it is important to ensure the right mix of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of torture goods as well as effectively control items with potential lethal and inhumane uses. it is essential to ensure coherence of the eu’s export controls including military, dual use, firearms and torture goods lists, without subjecting items to duplicate controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's report amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture regulation contributes to the eu's long-term policy to abolish the death penalty and prevent torture worldwide. the regulation contributes to these objectives by combining prohibitions with the requirements for the issuing of marketing authorisations for specified commodities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i think that it is necessary to set very strict requirements for trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. in particular, due respect for human life and fundamental human rights must be ensured and public interests and moral standards protected. it is necessary to prohibit the export and import of such equipment. it is welcome that the rules have been supplemented by provisions which will, at the same time or in certain cases, strictly control not only the export of the goods in question but also their transit through the eu or their advertising. the implementation of the measures envisaged will ensure that economic operators do not benefit from trade in goods which are used in practice only for capital punishment or for torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it aims to address the gaps in trade in certain goods that could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. despite existing prohibitions, companies have found ways to market and advertise certain goods. the european parliament therefore called on the european commission to update those rules. firstly, online and offline commercial marketing, limited transit, expanded product list.
in writing. the purpose of this convention is to resolve these problems at international level by establishing that the courts having jurisdiction and the laws applicable are those of the state in which the child has his or her habitual residence. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted.
in writing. ‒ because of previous adopted articles, any attempt at an agreement for an exchange of information between europol and any third states or international organisations has to pass through the approval of the european parliament. in this report, an agreement between europol and the people’s republic of china is being discussed. china has been increasing in its capabilities and sources regarding information about organised crime. china itself is home to several high-profile criminal groups. all these were the reason proposed for this report, yet the report brings us very close to the blurred lines of exchange of individual privacy and personal data. the report would be giving both sides close access to this kind of data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the european police office (europol) to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. europol has a clear operational need to cooperate with china. according to europol, china is becoming increasingly important as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, intellectual property rights infringements, corruption in the sports sector, cybercrime and money laundering-related crime. i therefore support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it will make a significant contribution to the fight against organised crime and will contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with a proposal for the proposed endorsement of strategic cooperation between europol and china. the exchange of personal data is not covered by this strategic agreement, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. exchanges of information could be carried out in the areas of specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as advice and assistance in specific criminal investigations. it appears that europol has a clear operational need to cooperate with china. europol states that china is becoming increasingly important as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, intellectual property rights infringements, corruption in the sports sector, cybercrime and money laundering-related crime. in addition, several high-profile organised crime groups are based in china. parliament welcomed the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it would help to combat and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i voted to abstain. this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. such strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. however it is especially relevant knowing that china is increasingly relevant as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as cybercrime and money laundering related activities. i believe that the cooperation with china is indeed a necessary move; however, i see a lot of improvement that still needs to be made in order to have efficient cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of a strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. europol has a clear operational need to cooperate with china. europol says china is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, such as aiding illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting and so on.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, this agreement will help to combat and strengthen the fight against organised crime. it will also allow for a more rapid increase in cooperation in the field of international law enforcement and a proper strategic cooperation between europol and china. it should be noted that the provisions of the agreement do not cover the exchange of personal data. they therefore do not regulate the issue of data protection. it is worth noting that the new agreement will ensure an effective exchange of information in the areas of specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, training activities. in addition, in order to enhance mutual cooperation more effectively, the provision of advice and assistance in specific criminal investigations will be facilitated.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it aims to ensure data exchange and closer cooperation between europol and china. at first glance, this may seem to be a welcome initiative. sharing data could help prevent large-scale transnational crime. however, the situation is not that simple. the chinese authorities have consistently violated human rights by persecuting political opponents or people who disagree with the demonstration - lawyers, journalists, activists. the exchange of strategic research, working methods and other information can therefore serve to further intensify the persecution of these individuals and the application of new methods.
in writing. this proposal relates to the proposed endorsement of a strategic cooperation between europol and china. such agreements may involve the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall include the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on african, caribbean and pacific (acp) -eu relations after 2020. acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the links between the acp and eu peoples and states and their parliaments over the past 40 years, but the achievement of the goals of poverty reduction and integration of the acp countries into the world economy is currently lacking. i therefore support the need to establish an acp-eu mutual monitoring, reporting and review mechanism to monitor the implementation of the sdgs in the member states on an ongoing basis, involving acp and eu representatives not only from central government bodies but also from parliaments, regional and local authorities, civil society and the scientific community, in the preparation of annual conclusions and recommendations on national, regional and global review processes and follow-up.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls for the fight against poverty and inequality to be the main objective of cooperation between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the eu, and ultimately for their total eradication and the promotion of sustainable development. parliament stresses that the new agreement must be above all a political project based on the principle of responsibility, expressly rejecting the 'donor/recipient' approach. cooperation should also take place in areas of common interest where mutual benefits can be expected, not only in economic terms but also in peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of both the acp and the eu population. the european parliament therefore calls for the national parliaments and regional and local authorities in the acp and eu countries to be more actively involved in all stages of acp and eu policies and activities, from future planning and programming to implementation, evaluation and monitoring, in particular in the light of the principle of subsidiarity. calls on all parties to the new agreement to give local and regional governments greater autonomy and to strengthen their capacity to carry out their responsibilities effectively and to make a significant contribution to the development of the acp countries;
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the ep report on african, caribbean and pacific (acp) -eu relations after 2020. the communication sets out provisions for new cooperation objectives and financial and economic instruments to help tackle more effectively the global challenges of our time, such as climate change, migration flows, terrorism, extremism, international crime, biodiversity, water, energy and food supply, etc.
in writing. i agree with the report. i believe that there is a need to focus on the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals now. it is therefore essential to ensure that the new agreement contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. in particular, an effective monitoring mechanism and the future institutions of the acp and the eu, including a parliamentary dimension, need to be established. it is also essential to promote on an ongoing basis an open, democratic and comprehensive parliamentary dialogue. another important aspect is future funding. in this context, a specific facility should be established to finance security expenditure related to development cooperation. in order to ensure sustainable development and policy coherence, particular attention should also be paid to the implementation of trade policy. it is essential to ensure that sustainability provisions are included in economic partnership agreements without reservations. in addition, binding minimum requirements for new economic partnership agreements and control and monitoring mechanisms should be established.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it should be noted that eu-acp cooperation has not lived up to expectations in the past. a considerable sum of money was required, but the expected results were not achieved. this shows the need for closer and more direct cooperation with individual countries rather than a unified and less beneficial one.
in writing. i believe that while strong political alliances based on shared interests and values should continue to be the basis of the acp partnership, further cooperation on global issues should be strengthened and appropriate mechanisms developed to address more effectively the global challenges of our day, such as climate change, water, energy and food supply, migration flows, terrorism, extremism, international crime, biodiversity, health and financial challenges.
madam president, i would like to object, based on rule 192 of the rules of procedure. in respect of minutes for 3 october, i did not agree to be replaced by catherine bearder in the committee on internal market and consumer protection.
mr president, just a few remarks. the first concerns migrants. today it is clear that the people of the european countries do not accept the policy of quotas. and hungary, regardless of how we interpret the referendum result, will not accept migrants, as will some other countries in the european union. will the european parliament and the council have the courage to admit that the quota policy has been a complete failure? will it be strong enough to recognise that the only effective means of tackling migration and the problems it brings is through control of external and internal borders? secondly, the treaty between the united states and the european union. neither the name of the president nor the timing of the election campaign can be an excuse to turn a blind eye to a treaty that will open the door to the people of europe to export unsafe food, chemicals and other products to their countries. calls for speeding up negotiations, where the parties' ambitions are so far diametrically opposed and no compromise is being reached by either side, are another example of the irresponsible policies we have in common today. and the third is about the future. dialogue, and dialogue alone, is a prerequisite for the continued existence of the european union. i am not just talking about the contract. dialogue, not confrontation, is necessary after the hungarian and british referendums. that dialogue is no less needed now that america and russia have broken off talks on a possible peace process in syria. the european union should be the initiator of the dialogue in this respect, trying to bring the two sides to the negotiating table in a trilateral or a quadrilateral way. (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you for asking. the free movement of people is certainly one of the four fundamental freedoms of europe, and i think it's a positive concept, but i see no limit and no end to the possibility of accepting these tens or even more millions of people from other countries, where we are doing nothing to cause armed conflict and people have to flee their own country.
syria must be on the agenda of the next eu council meeting. we are watching as the syrian government, backed by the russian air force, is conducting an intensive campaign, methodically killing civilians in and around aleppo. the international community, including the european union, cannot even deliver humanitarian aid. what the russian-backed syrian government is doing in aleppo is a vicious campaign that must be stopped, and we await the decision of the council of the european union on this matter. given the way russia is allowing itself to behave not only in syria, but also in ukraine, georgia, there is only one way - sanctions on russia must remain. russia has not implemented the minsk agreements and, until they are implemented, any proposals to consider lifting sanctions against russia are unacceptable and, most importantly, useless to the european union. on foreign trade issues, the ceta, the free trade agreement with canada, must be given the green light immediately, everything must be done to ensure that the agreement is not only signed but also enters into force immediately.
in writing. the forthcoming european council at the end of october will focus on the russian question. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. in september, parliamentary elections were held, which finally eliminated the non-systemic opposition from the russian political system. in early 2014, he was appointed as a member of the security council of the russian federation. at the end of the month, the dutch chief investigator's report on the mh17 tragedy confirmed that the passenger plane over eastern ukraine was shot down by a buk zenit missile system brought from russia and later returned to russia. while the specific identities of the officials who committed and ordered the crime are not yet being revealed, questions about russia's responsibility for this tragedy should no longer arise. on october 4, it was announced that the country would begin a three-day general military exercise that would mobilize 40 million people, or one third of the population. this is obviously a propaganda figure, but the number of such unannounced exercises in russia is increasing. this should be sufficient to assess the current political situation in russia and the success of any attempts to normalise relations with it by returning to the usual formats.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. i welcome the accession of peru to the convention as eu-wide protection should be ensured for the children in question. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. the convention also initiates a system which ensures the immediate return of children who have been abducted. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the two member states which have not yet accepted the accession of peru – austria and romania – to accept that accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the entire european union and it has a particular significance because of many eu citizens that are of peruvian origin. children with links to the peruvian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interests of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document providing a framework for cooperation between the contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, child abduction problems arise when a couple separates. in addition, the courts of both countries often recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to a parent who is a national of their respective country. in the light of these examples, i support the accession of peru to the hague convention to determine the competent courts and to apply the laws of the state of the child's habitual residence. it would also ensure that the child abducted is returned without delay.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the european union's interest in supporting peru's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, these problems arise when couples separate. if the mother and father are from different countries, there is a desire to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries in order to secure custody of the child. the media are full of reports of international child abductions, either by separation or by adoption. in these cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. often, the courts of both countries recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to the parent who is a national of their respective country. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is necessary in order to authorise the two member states which have not yet acceded to peru's accession (austria and romania) to accede to that country. this will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the whole of the european union. the accession of peru to the convention is welcomed. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of peruvian origin. so children with connections to the peruvian community will be protected from abduction.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's report on the council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interests of the european union, to accede to the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of peru to the convention is welcomed, especially as a significant number of eu citizens are of peruvian origin. so children with connections to the peruvian community will be protected from abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which authorises the republic of austria and romania, in the interests of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the purpose of this convention is to address, at the international level, the problem of national bias in the legal systems of individual states, whereby the courts of both states recognise their own jurisdiction and each confers custody of the child on a parent who is a national of their state. the convention helps to avoid this by ensuring that the law of the state in which the child has his or her habitual residence is the law of the state in which the child has his or her habitual residence and is the law of the state in which the child has his or her habitual residence. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is necessary in order to authorise austria and romania, which have not yet acceded to peru's accession, to accede to peru's accession.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the eu, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. following kazakhstan’s accession to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the member states (except denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which has already accepted the accession of kazakhstan) to accept that accession. i would like to point out that the european commission, together with civil justice experts from the member states, has evaluated the functioning of kazakhstan's justice system and the country's willingness to implement the convention, and considers that it is desirable for the convention to enter into force between the european union and kazakhstan. i express my support for this, not only because the hague convention system is more effective if more countries sign up to it, but also to guarantee that children in question are provided with eu-wide protection.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal authorising certain member states, in the interests of the european union, to agree to the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document providing a framework for cooperation between the contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, child abduction problems arise when a couple separates. in addition, the courts of both countries often recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to a parent who is a national of their respective country. in the light of these examples, i support the accession of kazakhstan to the hague convention to determine the competent courts and apply the law of the state of the child's habitual residence. it would also ensure that the child abducted is returned without delay.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the european union's interest in supporting kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, these problems arise when couples separate. if the mother and father are from different countries, there is a desire to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries in order to secure custody of the child. the media are full of reports of international child abductions, either by separation or by adoption. in these cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. often, the courts of both countries recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to the parent who is a national of their respective country. following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is necessary to empower member states (with the exception of denmark, which is not subject to the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which has already agreed to the accession of kazakhstan) to agree to the accession of that country. this will allow the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep report on the council decision authorising certain member states, in the interests of the european union, to approve the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is to be welcomed. the commission, together with civil justice experts from the member states, has assessed the functioning of the judicial system in kazakhstan and its commitment to implement the convention and considers it desirable that the convention enter into force between the eu and kazakhstan. the hague convention system will be more effective if more countries join it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which authorises certain member states, in the interests of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, this decision is necessary in order to empower member states to accede to the accession of that country. this will allow the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the accession of kazakhstan to the convention. the commission, together with civil justice experts from the member states, has assessed the functioning of the judicial system of kazakhstan and its commitment to implement the convention and considers it desirable that the convention enter into force between the european union and kazakhstan. i agree with this, because the hague convention system will be more effective if more countries join it (see protocol).
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of south korea to the convention is to be welcomed. the european commission has evaluated the functioning of south korea's justice system and the country's willingness to implement the convention, and considers that it is desirable for the convention to enter into force between the european union and south korea. however, a council decision is necessary to authorise the member states (except denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea) to accept the accession of the republic of korea. this will allow the convention to enter into force between the republic of korea and the entire european union. i welcome the effort to ensure that eu-wide protection is afforded to the children in question, also having in mind the fact that there is a significant korean community in europe, which adds to the relevance of accepting this accession.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal authorising certain member states, in the interests of the european union, to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document providing a framework for cooperation between the contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, child abduction problems arise when a couple separates. moreover, the courts of both countries often recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to a parent who is a national of their respective country. in the light of these examples, i support the accession of korea to the hague convention to determine the competent courts and apply the laws of the state of the child's habitual residence. it would also ensure that the child abducted is returned without delay.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the european union's interest in supporting the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. in many cases, these problems arise when couples separate. if the mother and father are from different countries, there is a desire to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries in order to secure custody of the child. the media are full of reports of international child abductions, either by separation or by adoption. in these cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. often, the courts of both countries recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to the parent who is a national of their respective country. following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is necessary to empower member states (with the exception of denmark, which is not subject to the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already agreed to the accession of south korea) to agree to the accession of south korea. this will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the whole of the european union. the accession of south korea to the convention is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the accession of south korea to the convention is welcomed. the commission, together with civil justice experts from the member states, has assessed the functioning of the justice system in south korea and its commitment to implement the convention and considers it desirable that the convention enter into force between the european union and south korea. i agree with the provisions of this report because i believe that the hague convention system will be more effective and the handling of international child abduction cases will be easier if more countries accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which authorises certain member states, in the interests of the european union, to accede to the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. following the accession of south korea to the convention, this decision is necessary in order to empower member states to accede to the accession of south korea. this will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the whole of the european union.
in writing. i am not sure, because the convention provides a system to ensure that a child who is abducted is returned immediately.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the motion for a resolution on global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. while i appreciate the effort to call on the member states to step up with their commitments for global food security, the final document had serious weaknesses, deploring that the eu biofuels policy is encouraging speculation on arable land and urging the eu to remove public incentives for the production of crop-based biofuels. additionally, despite the fact that this resolution stressed the need for eu trade and development policy to respect the political and economic policy space of developing countries in order for them to establish the necessary policies to promote sustainable development and dignity for their people, including food sovereignty, it failed to respect the right of local food producers to have control over their land, seeds and water, meaning that privatisation of natural resources was not excluded, due to an unsuccessful amending attempt, from the final text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the follow-up to the global goals and on the eu's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. there are currently 159 million children in the world with developmental disabilities (due to age and low height) and 50 million children suffering from malnutrition (due to height and low weight, often associated with extreme hunger). poor nutrition weakens physical and cognitive abilities and creates a cycle of poverty. the commission's action plan on nutrition has committed to reducing the number of children with developmental disabilities by 7 million by 2025, but investment in nutrition remains insufficient. i therefore agree that the commission must honour its commitment to invest eur 3.5 billion to reduce the number of children with developmental disabilities by at least 7 million by 2025.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament stresses the need to tackle the systemic problems that lead to malnutrition in all its forms. reinvestment in local food production, with a particular focus on small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, is a key condition for the successful implementation of nutrition strategies. it is also essential to establish social protection schemes to ensure that all people have access to nutritious food at all times. parliament also stressed that priority should be given to local food production in tackling food shortages and stressed the importance of supporting small farmers and farmers as food producers. it is therefore important to encourage the eu, in the context of its global nutrition strategy, to help developing countries and small farmers to develop and exploit local markets, local value chains and food processing opportunities, while implementing trade policy measures to support these actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. i believe that everyone should have access to nutritious food, and that is why it is important to consistently help developing countries and their small farmers to develop local markets, local value chains and food processing opportunities. this would reduce poverty and disease caused by malnutrition in developing countries.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. the world must act as one and make a proper contribution to the effort to end hunger. it is essential to address malnutrition as a matter of urgency and to implement the 2030 agenda. in particular, it is necessary to prevent land grabs and privatisation of seeds by foreign investors. eu trade and development policy must help to promote food self-sufficiency, respecting the right of local food producers to manage their land, seeds and water. it is also essential to mobilise long-term financial investment and to establish social protection schemes to ensure that all people have access to nutritious food at all times. it is also essential that the eu and its member states take a firm stand against gmo crops in fulfilling their commitments to food security and global food security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the way forward towards the global goals and on the eu's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. worldwide, 795 million people do not have enough food to lead a healthy and active life. yet, at the same time, one third of all food produced worldwide - about 1.3 billion tons - is wasted. in the european union alone, 88 million tonnes of food is wasted. so the first step to tackling food insecurity is to adapt all food systems so that food is not wasted. secondly, it is necessary to encourage food production where it is scarce, rather than spending millions on exporting it, thus increasing the climate change problem. therefore, the funds allocated to food security must be used to train local people in the implementation of new technologies. on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that food is safe and healthy. feeding the hungry is important, but food cannot be poisoned.
in writing. i agree that we need to tackle the systemic problems that lead to all forms of malnutrition. i believe that reinvestment in local food production, with a particular focus on small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, is a key condition for the successful implementation of nutrition strategies. i also think it is extremely important to create social security schemes that ensure that all people have access to nutritious food at all times.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor’s office and eurojust. i welcome the fact that the resolution calls on the council to provide an unambiguous and clear set of competences and proceedings concerning the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) as well as to clarify the relations between eurojust and the eppo. the resolution also relates to a separate proposal for a directive that aims at combating fraud against the eu’s financial interests – also known as the pif directive which is highly relevant knowing that for instance between 2010 and 2012, an average of eur 500 million were suspected to have been defrauded each year in the member states, though the actual extent of the fraud is estimated to be significantly greater. i supported this motion for a resolution, especially having in mind that the european parliament reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an efficient and independent eppo to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thus strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal for a european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the final report 'investigation and reporting on vat non-collection in the 28 eu member states: final report 2016' shows that a huge amount of value added tax (vat) revenue was lost across the eu in 2014 amounting to eur 159,5 billion. in the light of the results of this investigation, it is essential that the eu and the member states identify cases of fraud affecting the eu's financial interests. it is therefore necessary to establish an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement and to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the eu. the importance of eurojust's role in improving judicial cooperation and coordination between the relevant judicial authorities in the member states and in supporting investigations involving non-eu countries should also be mentioned. i therefore agree that the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust should operate from a single location in order to ensure that cooperation and the exchange of information between them is effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament notes that eurojust has facilitated coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in cases affecting several member states, and that eurojust has helped to build mutual trust and to bring together the different legal systems and traditions of the eu. eurojust also facilitated the execution of requests for cooperation and the application of mutual recognition measures, thus improving cross-border prosecutions. in this report, parliament reaffirms its long-term support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts and protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. it also takes the view that the eppo should be provided with sufficient investigative means to enable it to conduct its own investigations. parliament therefore calls on the council to ensure that appropriate safeguards are put in place to ensure the independence of the eppo, such as a provision allowing for derogation from the national reference for reasons of the proper functioning of the eppo. parliament also considers that it would be best for the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust to operate under a single location in order to ensure that cooperation and the exchange of information between them is effective.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, which calls for the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts, save the eu budget and strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. more active action is needed to ensure that the eu has an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office. in particular, the eppo will remove obstacles to effectively combating crimes against the eu's financial interests and will strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. it will also help to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts. in this context, it is essential that the council provide as soon as possible an unambiguous and clear set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office. only with clear legal regulation will the institution be able to effectively prevent the misuse of eu budget funds and subsequent cases of fraud. in order to distinguish the roles of the institutions concerned in the protection of the financial interests of the eu, the boundaries of the relationship and competence between eurojust and the eppo should be defined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. i support the idea that an efficient and independent european public prosecutor's office is necessary to strengthen the fight against fraud. on the other hand, in the interests of efficiency, it is necessary to improve judicial cooperation by involving both eurojust and the european anti-fraud office.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. the closure of the caterpillar site in belgium and alstom site in france are reflections of the deindustrialisation of certain sectors in many european countries. the closures reflect current economic changes and require swift action on eu level. the closure will have an enormous impact on the affected regions, which are already under economic pressure. concerns have been raised about the effects on unemployment in both france and belgium. i welcome this resolution, as i think that companies which are active in the eu have the legal and moral responsibility to engage in social dialogue with the workforce and regional and national authorities. employers should also ensure the reconversion of their employees, so that they can more easily find new employment. additionally, it is important that we develop a strong reindustrialisation policy that puts focus on attracting foreign investment, increasing competitiveness, digitalisation, research and development.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent cases of 'caterpillar' and 'alstom'. on 2 september 2016, caterpillar announced that it would close its headquarters in gosl, belgium, in april 2017 and that it would lose 2 000 jobs. the commission also notes that the commission did not provide any information on the costs of the transfer of the production of the trains to the reichshoffen site. in view of these emerging problems, which are directly related to the social security of workers, i support the european parliament's call to promote the real economy through a policy of sustainable reindustrialisation, that is to say, to coordinate economic policies based on higher social standards and domestic demand as a driving force, thus promoting development, the deployment of energy efficiency, renewable energy, resource efficiency and social innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the council to adopt without delay a decision on the modernisation of trade defence mechanisms, so that we can finally respond appropriately to unfair practices by third countries and protect the european union industry from dumping on the european market, thus ensuring fair competition for all. parliament also called on the commission to ensure that eu trade policy is more compatible with industrial policy and that trade policy takes account of the need to protect jobs in eu industry, thus avoiding new relocations and further deindustrialisation. it is also important for the commission to ensure that trade agreements include specific provisions to ensure better market access for eu industry and to ensure a level playing field between european and non-european market participants. the commission is also called upon to ensure compliance with eu public procurement regulations, i.e. regulations on state preferences, abnormally low prices and unfair competition. the european parliament reiterates that the eu must anticipate the negative impact of free trade agreements on employment and eu industry and that the european funds must provide support to allocate funds to regions and/or sectors of activity that have been negatively affected by these agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution calling on the council to take a decision as soon as possible on the modernisation of trade defence mechanisms, so that we can finally respond appropriately to unfair practices by third countries, and protect european union industry from dumping on the european market and ensure fair competition.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. it is worth noting that the closure of these enterprises has a particularly severe impact on the local economy and communities. i believe that more needs to be done to prevent the possible future closure of multinational companies, restructuring plans and strategic economic decisions that will result in the loss of thousands of jobs. in order to respond to the extreme social situation created by globalisation, relocation and deindustrialisation, the commission should establish a european minimum income system. in this context, it is essential to increase support for european industrial policy and to develop as soon as possible an effective long-term european industrial strategy. a coordinated policy at eu level is needed to stimulate demand, provide fiscal instruments and ensure wage growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom. i think the message of this resolution is very important the european parliament calls on the commission to ensure a level playing field between european and non-european market players, thus ensuring fair competition for all. equally important, the text emphasises the importance of the green economy, as the transition to a green economy has a positive impact on employment, enabling regions to meet more of their own needs.
in writing. i welcome the commission's working group, which will act as an intermediary between the belgian authorities and the commission. i believe that research and industry links are crucial to boosting the competitiveness of eu industry.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order on behalf of the ppe group. i want to object to the minutes of yesterday’s sitting. in point 10 – ‘approval of the minutes of the previous sitting’ – the minutes take note of mr guoga’s objection to the minutes of monday’s sitting, but at the same time confirm the approval of the minutes of monday’s sitting. as mr guoga had a serious objection to raise, and there was no decision on his objection in yesterday’s sitting, it is the wrong conclusion that the minutes of monday’s sitting can be deemed to be approved. before a decision on mr guoga’s intervention has been taken, the minutes of monday’s session cannot be approved and the conclusion in yesterday’s minutes cannot be not correct.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament delegation, i have been observing the plebiscite in columbia. let me share with you my observations and a few conclusions. last sunday we witnessed colombian democracy in action. we should fully respect the will of the colombian people expressed during the plebiscite. the result of the plebiscite does not question in any way the will of the colombian people to have peace and reconciliation in that country, which has been facing armed conflict, killings, kidnappings, displacements and all kinds of violence for 52 years. the perception in europe that the ‘no’ camp voted in favour of war is totally wrong. the colombian nation wants peace and voted for peace. the peace process in colombia is irreversible. bilateral ceasefire commitments made by the colombian government and farc have been kept. the european union will continue its support for the peace process in colombia. president santos and his government deserve our support in their efforts to reach a de facto peace in colombia without prejudging the content of the peace agreement, providing that the colombian people endorse and approve it through the plebiscite. the result of the plebiscite clearly indicates that the final peace agreement has to be renegotiated and at least two issues are to be addressed, namely participation of farc in the political process and impunity for farc. the current peace agreement guarantees ten seats for farc in the colombian congress and five seats in the senate, without the need to be elected, plus justice reviews for farc members. now it is evident that a new phase of dialogue must be opened that should be inclusive and transparent. my last remark has regard to the delisting of farc from the eu list of terrorist organisations. following the signing of the peace agreement, the council unanimously decided to temporarily delist farc for six months, and sanctions against the farc leadership have been dropped. the decision regarding delisting is conditional and is to be terminated immediately if farc does not deliver on its promises of no violence and full disarmament. i suggest that the issue of the delisting of farc be high on the agenda of high representative mogherini.
in writing. the commission's annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law once again provides interesting information on the implementation of existing eu law and its practical application. the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. the report also highlights the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years. it should be emphasised that the correct implementation and application of eu law is primarily the responsibility of the member states and that member states, in implementing eu law, must also respect all the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. parliament also recalls that the commission has a responsibility to monitor and evaluate the implementation of eu law and therefore regularly encourages the member states to use correlation tables, but notes that this does not exempt the eu institutions from the obligation to respect eu primary law when preparing eu secondary legislation. parliament also has a crucial role to play in the political control of the commission's enforcement actions, in the examination of the annual reports on the monitoring of the implementation of eu law and in the adoption of relevant parliament resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9. the global financial crisis brought onto the eu agenda the role played by international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in financial stability and growth, in particular the rules regarding the recognition of losses incurred in the banking system. ifrs 9 – financial instruments were issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb) as a key response to the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. i supported this motion for a resolution as it thoroughly notes the absence of a proper quantitative impact assessment for ifrs 9, which is due in part to a lack of reliable data. also, it underlines the need to gain a better understanding of the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking sector, the insurance sector and the financial markets in general. i also welcome this resolution’ call on the european commission, together with the european supervisory agencies (esas), the european central bank and the european systemic risk board (esrb), to closely monitor the implementation of ifrs 9 in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament discusses the 9th international financial reporting standard (ifrs) published by the international accounting standards board. the global financial crisis has put the importance of international financial reporting standards for financial stability and growth on the g20 and eu agendas, in particular the rules on the recognition of losses incurred in the banking system. notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial institutions have been able to comply with the requirements of ifrs 9 in the past; notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial institutions have been able to comply with the requirements of ifrs 9 in the past; the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new approach on the capital adequacy of the banks, in particular by taking into account the impact of the new approach on the capital adequacy of the banks, the impact of the new approach on the capital adequacy of the banks and the impact of the new approach on the capital adequacy of the banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the international accounting standards board's 9th international financial reporting standard (ifrs). this standard is important because it helps to shape national accounting systems so that they are understood in different countries. the resolution discusses the impact of these standards on eu banks and aims to provide measures to ensure financial stability and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9. the global financial crisis has put the importance of international financial reporting standards for financial stability and growth on the g20 and eu agendas. the newly developed standard (ifrs 9) will become effective on 1 january 2018 and will replace international accounting standard (ias) 39. the new standard is much more advanced, as it moves from a model of impairment based on 'experimental loss' to one based on 'predicted loss'. this is a solution to the problem of too little and too late action in the procedure for recognising loan losses. in its resolution, parliament calls on the commission, together with the esas, to closely monitor the implementation of ifrs 9 in the eu and to prepare an impact assessment and submit it to the european parliament by june 2019.
in writing. i stress the importance of long-term investment in economic growth. i am concerned that accounting for certain financial instruments held directly or indirectly as long-term investments (in particular equity) under ifrs 9 could undermine the overall objective of encouraging long-term investments.
i voted in favour because i want to bring an end to the killing of innocent people and also to inform you that one of the possible candidates for the nobel peace prize is the syrian "white helmets", who have saved some 60 000 people in opposition-controlled territory after bombings. the white helmets are one of the lights of hope for the local people, and have therefore been targeted by forces supporting the syrian regime. the deliberate destruction of the headquarters of the organisation by both russian and assad forces is an unacceptable and shameful step which must be rigorously assessed by the eu institutions. a few weeks ago, the white helmets announced that most of their equipment had been destroyed. this prevents them from reaching newly bombed areas in time to help the people. i therefore invite you to contribute and to encourage member states to find the means to enable these voluntary organisations to continue their noble mission.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on syria. despite the efforts of the international community to end the fighting, the situation in syria is deteriorating. military actions, including attacks on hospitals, have intensified across syria, particularly in aleppo, which is being heavily bombed by russian military aircraft supporting the syrian government. with this resolution, we seek and call on the other eu institutions to play a greater role in mediating a syrian peace agreement. the resolution calls on all parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, to end all sieges and to allow humanitarian organisations to reach those in need without hindrance. the call for renewed efforts towards a common eu strategy for syria, aimed at facilitating a political settlement in syria, is also welcome. it is also necessary to monitor and ensure the implementation of the agreements and commitments reached within the international support group for syria. all participants in the international support group for syria are encouraged to resume negotiations in order to facilitate a stable ceasefire and to work more actively towards a lasting political solution in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament condemns all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of all sieges in syria and the lack of humanitarian assistance to the syrian people in need. parliament was particularly concerned about the suffering of the people in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout syria, including many women and children, who have no access to essential humanitarian aid and are in dire need of food, clean water and medical supplies. it also deeply regrets the recent attacks on humanitarian convoys and the red crescent warehouse near aleppo and condemns them as a serious and worrying violation of international humanitarian law and a possible war crime. parliament paid tribute to the humanitarian workers who died helping the people of aleppo and the whole of syria, and expressed its deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the victims; it called for accountability and for those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity to be held to account. parliament therefore calls on the high representative and the vice-president of the commission to renew their efforts towards a common eu strategy on syria, aimed at facilitating a political settlement in syria, and to include monitoring and enforcement measures to better respect the agreements and commitments made in the international support group for syria.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution on syria. the resolution, in view of the intensification of hostilities in syria, attacks on medical facilities and the dramatic deterioration of the situation, calls on all parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including water and electricity infrastructure, to take credible and immediate action to end hostilities, to lift all sieges and to allow humanitarian organisations to reach all people in need quickly, safely and without hindrance.
in writing. i strongly condemn all attacks against the civilian population and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of all sieges in syria and the lack of humanitarian assistance to the syrian people in need. i express my deep concern at the suffering of the people in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout syria, including the many women and children who are deprived of access to essential humanitarian goods and are in dire need of food, clean water and medical supplies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco. the 22nd session of the conference of parties to the united nations convention on climate change (cop 22) will be held in marrakesh (morocco) in november 2016. it will focus on actions in order to achieve the priorities of the paris agreement, especially related to adaptation, transparency, technology transfer, mitigation, capacity building and loss and damages. to my mind, the motion for a resolution that i have supported is of high relevance due to its effort to welcome the paris climate agreement as a landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism. what is more, it also aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference in marrakesh and addresses, among other things, issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the fight against climate change cannot be seen as an obstacle to economic growth, but rather as a lever to help achieve and deliver new and sustainable economic and employment growth. developing countries, in particular least developed countries and small island developing states, which lack sufficient resources to prepare for and adapt to the changes underway, will be the most affected by climate change. according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), africa is particularly vulnerable to this challenge and therefore suffers greatly from water scarcity, extreme weather conditions and food shortages due to droughts and desertification. the european parliament therefore stresses that adaptation action is a must for all countries if they are to reduce the negative impacts of climate change and fully exploit the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development. parliament also called on the commission to review the eu's adaptation strategy adopted in 2013 and invited the commission to submit a proposal for a legally binding measure if it considered that action by member states was not sufficient.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the european parliament resolution and its provisions that all countries must take action to adapt to climate change if they are to reduce its negative impact on the environment and fully exploit the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. first, the paris agreement must be ratified and implemented. a climate policy with a strong scientific basis is needed to achieve the objectives set. it is essential that the commission carries out a comprehensive assessment of the potential impact of the paris agreement on the eu budget and establishes a separate automatic eu financial mechanism. the contribution of renewable energy sources and adaptation measures to the global fight against climate change must be given high priority. i believe that a proposal should be considered to establish a legally binding instrument applicable to transnational corporations and other business enterprises from the point of view of human rights and designed to regulate the activities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises within the framework of international human rights law. in addition, all sectors need to make greater efforts to combat climate change. industry and competitiveness, energy policy, research, innovation and digital technologies play a key role in this area.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this resolution commits to ratify the paris agreement as soon as possible, and to use its international role and membership in international parliamentary networks to make consistent progress towards the rapid ratification and implementation of the paris agreement. this resolution shows that the european parliament remains committed to an ambitious climate change mitigation plan.
in writing. i welcome the commitment of the paris agreement to reduce global carbon emissions to zero by the second half of the century, as well as the development of emissions trading systems (ets) worldwide, including 17 ets covering four continents, covering 40% of global gdp, and contributing to economically efficient global emissions reductions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the food contact materials (fcm) regulation. fcms are largely used in everyday life as food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc. when put in contact with food, different materials may behave differently, transferring their constituents to the food. in such cases, chemicals emanating from fcms may endanger human health. fcms are subject to legally binding rules at eu level, which are currently laid down in framework regulation (ec) no 1935/2004. this sets out general safety requirements that are applicable to all possible food contact materials. it also foresees the possibility to adopt specific measures for the 17 materials listed in the regulation, but so far specific eu measures have only been adopted for four fcms: plastic, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. i welcome the recommendations of this report to adopt the specific eu measures for the remaining 13 materials, giving priority to those that constitute a particular risk to human health, and to urgently tackle shortcomings in the implementation and enforcement of the legislation in place. in this respect, the focus should be on four major areas: risk assessment, traceability, enforcement and controls of compliance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the regulation on raw materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. food contact materials are often used in everyday life as packaging, kitchen utensils, cutlery and other items. when in contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, different substances may react differently to release their constituents into food. in such cases, the chemicals released by food contact materials may endanger human health or adversely affect the composition of food. as food is considered to be one of the main routes by which chemicals affect humans, legally binding eu-level rules currently set out in the framework regulation apply to food contact materials. the legislation aims to maintain a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market for food contact materials. this regulation lays down common safety requirements for all materials and articles which may come into contact with food. to date, specific measures at eu level have been adopted for only four food contact materials, namely plastics (including recycled plastics), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for other food contact materials, member states may adopt specific measures at national level.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep report on the regulation on raw materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. the legislation aims to maintain a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market for food contact materials.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i think it's very relevant. we use food packaging, tools that come in direct contact with food, every day. often little thought is given to the effects that these substances may have on our food and, in time, on our health. it is therefore necessary to have legislation aimed at maintaining a high level of consumer protection. the communication also calls for the development of safe, reusable and recyclable food-contact materials and products, thus contributing to the eu's efforts to create a more efficient circular economy.
in writing. i welcome research and innovation initiatives to develop new materials for use in wmd that have been shown to be safe for human health. i believe that further concrete measures at eu level would encourage businesses to develop safe, reusable and recyclable weee and thus contribute to the eu's efforts to create a more efficient circular economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on monitoring the application of union law, concerning the 2014 annual report. this, the commission’s 32nd annual report on the subject, contains information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. while environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014, the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years. despite the positive change, which in commission’s view reflects the effectiveness of dialogue with member states, it is clear from the annual report that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent. i supported the report as it not only notes that but also calls on the commission to make compliance with eu law a real political priority. i also appreciate the position that the european parliament should play a more structured role in the analysis of how accession countries and countries with association agreements with the european union comply with eu law, as well as in developing appropriate support in relation to those countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission's report on the monitoring of the application of european union law. the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. the report also highlights the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years. according to the commission, this demonstrates the effectiveness of the dialogue between member states under the 'eu pilot' procedure. however, given that parliament still has limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure and pending cases, it is difficult to assess to what extent the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures actually reflects a greater compliance by member states with eu law rather than a compromise between the commission and the member state that has infringed eu law. the report therefore concludes that the implementation of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent. the proposals of the new working group on administrative law set up by the legal affairs committee could thus be a valuable source of inspiration for the commission, as they demonstrate the usefulness and feasibility of a regulation on eu administrative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's report on the commission's report on the monitoring of the application of european union law. the report concludes that the implementation of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and provides guidelines and measures to address these problems.
in writing. i agree with the report. it is important that member states properly comply with the requirements of eu law and better implement them in national policies, and that compliance is improved and possible irregularities are quickly remedied, in the interests of citizens and businesses. environment, transport and the internal market and services remain the areas where most infringement proceedings have been initiated. attention should be drawn to the importance of a structured dialogue, which should be conducted before the initiation of an infringement procedure. trust in the eu institutions needs to be built. particular attention should be paid to petitions, as they are a fundamental right enshrined in the lisbon treaty and at the same time an important secondary tool for monitoring the application of eu law and identifying possible gaps in citizens' direct expression of their views.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the 2014 annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law. the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. it is important to stress that the european parliament still has limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure and to incomplete infringement cases , especially since a significant number of infringements remain invisible until the member state has found a compromise with the commission. the report therefore concludes that the implementation of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent.
in writing. i believe that financial sanctions for non-compliance with eu law should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, taking into account the repetition of non-compliance in the same area and the need to respect the member states' rights as enshrined in law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds. pursuant to directive 2001/18/ec, the cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 is prohibited in states of the european union such as bulgaria, denmark, greece, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, etc. the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec, which is to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community. having in mind also that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, i supported resolution’s call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is incompatible with european union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment, when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any purpose other than placing on the market within the territory of the european community and when gmos are placed on the market in the community as separate products or in other products. the parliament also considers that the risk assessment of the european food safety authority is not complete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution, as it expresses its opposition to the commission's decision to authorise the marketing of genetically modified maize seeds. i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects. unfortunately, the risk assessments for gmo cultivation are not currently comprehensive and unquestionable. for these reasons, i am against the development, marketing and cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament opposes the commission's decision to renew the authorisation of the company syngenta seeds s.a.s. to allow the genetically modified maize to enter the eu market. parliament considers that the draft commission decision is not in conformity with union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds. the european food safety authority (efsa) considered in 2005 that maize has no cross-compatible wild relatives in europe and stated that no unintended environmental effects due to its establishment and spread are anticipated. however, situation has changed as teosintes, the ancestor of cultivated maize, has been present in spain since 2009. spanish authorities have informed the commission about the presence of teosinte in spanish maize fields, including very limited presence in gm maize fields. i supported this motion for a resolution as the risk assessment on the cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. having in mind also the fact that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and that the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law, in that it is not compatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the ep and of the council, i welcome the call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is incompatible with european union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment, when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any purpose other than placing on the market within the territory of the european community and when gmos are placed on the market in the community as separate products or in other products. in its scientific opinion of 28 may 2015 updating the risk management recommendations to reduce exposure to non-target insects of the order lepidoptera in protected habitats, the efsa stated that there are currently insufficient data to assess the bt maize-associated larval mortality in the context of overall mortality. parliament considers that the risk assessment of the european food safety authority is not comprehensive and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution, as it expresses its opposition to the commission's decision to authorise the marketing of genetically modified maize seeds. i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects. unfortunately, the risk assessments for gmo cultivation are not currently comprehensive and unquestionable. for these reasons, i am against the development, marketing and cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament rejects the commission's decision to authorise the import of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 by pioneer overseas corporation and dow agrosciences europe ltd. parliament considers that the draft commission decision is not in conformity with union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision renewing the authorisation for the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds. as is stated in the resolution, both risk assessment on the cultivation and risk management recommendations are either incomplete or inadequate. what is more, the draft implementing decision itself is not consistent with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. for these reasons and also considering that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, i welcome the call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the european food safety authority and the panel on genetically modified organisms (gmo) have repeatedly and unsuccessfully repeated their recommendations on the post-market monitoring of the environmental impact of mon 810 maize, namely to provide more detailed information on sampling methodology, to reduce the possibility of bias in the selection of questionnaires for farmers and to ensure that all relevant scientific publications are referred to. in order to improve the list of farmers to be interviewed, the gmo expert group has repeatedly reiterated the importance of national gmo cultivation registers and its recommendations to authorisation holders to consider how to make the best use of the information contained in the national registers and to maintain a dialogue with the persons administering those registers on the cultivation areas of mon 810 maize.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution, as it expresses its opposition to the commission's decision to authorise the marketing of genetically modified maize seeds. i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects. unfortunately, the risk assessments for gmo cultivation are not currently comprehensive and unquestionable. for these reasons, i am against the development, marketing and cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is in opposition to the decision prepared by the european commission to renew the authorisation for the production of genetically modified maize mon 810 by monsanto europe s.a.. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution objecting to the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products. in 2015 the commission, in the explanatory memorandum to its legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, deplored the fact that since the entry into force of the regulation, authorisation decisions had been adopted by the commission without the support of opinions of member state committees. however, the commission’s legislative proposal amending the regulation was rejected by the european parliament on the grounds that, while cultivation necessarily takes place on a member state’s territory, gmo trade crosses borders, which means that a national sales and use ban proposed by the commission could be impossible to enforce without reintroducing border checks on imports. i supported this motion for a resolution considering that the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law and also exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. i welcome the call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal which takes into account frequently expressed national concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. parliament calls on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal, on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take account of the concerns often expressed by national authorities on issues beyond the health and environmental safety of genetically modified organisms (gmos).
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution as it expresses its opposition to the commission's decision to grant authorisation for the renewal of genetically modified maize products. i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on gmos should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects. unfortunately, at present, the risk assessments of gmos are not comprehensive and unquestionable. for these reasons, i am against the development, marketing and cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which opposes the decision prepared by the european commission to renew the authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon-øø81ø-6 by monsanto europe s.a.. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton. in 2015 the european parliament rejected the legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on the grounds that a national sales and use ban proposed by the commission could be impossible to enforce without reintroducing border checks on imports, and called on the commission to withdraw its proposal and to submit a new one. furthermore, the specialised cancer agency of the world health organisation, the international agency for research on cancer, classified glyphosate – associated with the cultivation of genetically modified cotton – as probably carcinogenic to humans. also, as it is stated in the resolution, the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers and is not compatible with the objective provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. i therefore support the call to the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. on 28 october 2015, parliament rejected the commission proposal of 22 april 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on the grounds that, although crops are inevitably grown on the territory of a member state, trade in genetically modified organisms (gmos) is cross-border, which means that the national prohibition on the sale and use proposed by the commission may not be possible unless border controls on imports are reintroduced.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution, as it objects to the commission's decision to authorise the marketing of food, food ingredients and feed containing genetically modified cotton. i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the need to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gmos should be taken only after irrefutable scientific evidence of their effects has been presented. unfortunately, the risk assessments for gmo cultivation are not currently comprehensive and unquestionable. for these reasons, i am against the development, marketing and cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which opposes the decision prepared by the european commission to allow the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 (das-24236-5×das-21ø23-5×mon-88913-8). the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. mr president, the european tradition of the rule of law and civil rights has a very long history, as its origins go back to the time of athenian democracy and roman law. the european union has enshrined the rule of law in its treaties. it is a pity that they did not include references to the christian roots of europe, about which the founders, schuman, adenauer, de gasperi, spoke so much. this is why the eu is experiencing a crisis of values and respect for rights, because it has lost the proper reference point that existed when the european community was formed. treaties are orphans, so it is no wonder that so many member states and their citizens do not accept the enforcement of the technocratic rules and regulations laid down in the eu treaties. the proposals in the report, which seek to impose a decisive say on member states on matters of values and norms with the help of the eu institutions, in particular the european commission, are not a good solution. the societies of individual states must be allowed to decide their own destiny through referendums or constitutional amendments without undue outside interference. if the union is to survive the current crisis, it must respect the national identities of all its member states, which are the fundamental historical and cultural heritage of these states. and, most importantly, in order to safeguard the rule of law, the union, and the commission in particular, cannot violate the laws that we have encountered in the cases of hungary and poland.
in writing. ‒ this draft council implementing decision aims to allow denmark to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha by means of automated searching and comparison of dna data. this will allow for better cooperation with other countries in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the automatic exchange of dna data in denmark. the council working party shall draw up a questionnaire for each case of automatic exchange of data and, where a member state considers that it fulfils the conditions for sharing the relevant category of data, it shall reply to the questions of the relevant questionnaire. denmark has responded to the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dna data. since a general evaluation report summarising the results of the questionnaire, the evaluation visit and the verification of the pilot system for the exchange of dna data has been submitted to the council, denmark should be entitled to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dna data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the council stated that denmark answered to the questionnaire prepared by the council working group regarding data protection and on dna data exchange issues. after the evaluation report by the council as well as the evaluation of denmark’s systems on data protection and dna data exchange, it came to the conclusion that denmark is granted the access on dna data exchange.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision granting denmark the right to access the eu database on the automatic exchange of dna data currently under development. the accession of denmark will improve the work of law enforcement authorities in the investigation and prevention of crime, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. as of 2015, lithuania exchanges its dna data with 13 eu member states within the framework of this project.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the automatic exchange of dna data is an important instrument in the fight against crime and terrorism. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of ensuring that such tools, which could eventually create personal databases for all eu citizens, do not become a mechanism of universal control or be used for purposes incompatible with human rights and freedoms. the current draft agreement gives grounds for expecting that this will not be the case, but at the same time i would like to call on the european parliament to ensure that the legislation under consideration and the mechanism it creates are used only for the primary purpose of combating crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft council implementing decision is to allow denmark to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha by means of automated searching of dactyloscopic data. this will allow for better cooperation with other countries in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark. the council working party shall draw up a questionnaire for each case of automatic exchange of data and, where a member state considers that it fulfils the conditions for sharing the relevant category of data, it shall reply to the questions of the relevant questionnaire. denmark has responded to the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data. an overall evaluation report, summarising the results of the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange, the evaluation visit and the verification of the pilot system, was submitted to the council. on 12 july 2016, the council therefore concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and that denmark should therefore be entitled to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. after the revision of results submitted by denmark for the council, it was concluded that denmark fulfilled all necessary criteria and is granted a permission regarding automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision granting denmark the right to access the eu database for automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data which is currently being developed. the accession of denmark will improve the work of law enforcement authorities in the investigation and prevention of crime, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. as of 2015, lithuania exchanges existing dactyloscopic data with 12 eu member states within the framework of this project.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data is an important instrument in the fight against crime and terrorism. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of ensuring that such tools, which could eventually create personal databases for all eu citizens, do not become a mechanism of universal control or be used for purposes incompatible with human rights and freedoms. the current draft agreement gives grounds for expecting that this will not be the case, but at the same time i would like to call on the european parliament to ensure that the legislation under consideration and the mechanism it creates are used only for the primary purpose of combating crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ given that the eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility is the framework for the exchange of views and discussion of cooperation between the two sides, it was agreed to open negotiations on a reciprocal visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic passports in 2013. i agree that visa waiver will reduce time spent in consulates and reduce travel related costs. it will also facilitate people-to-people exchanges, which are essential for the development of economic, cultural and scientific links on a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. china is one of the countries whose nationals are required to be in possession of a visa for entry into the schengen area, in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001. eu citizens travelling to china also need a visa. in addition, the visa information system (vis) was officially launched in china on 12 october 2015 and from that date all chinese applicants are required to submit their biometric data when applying for a schengen visa. the eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility provides a framework for the exchange of views and for the discussion of opportunities for cooperation on issues of mutual interest related to their respective migration policies. this dialogue was launched in october 2013 and, as part of its development, it was agreed to open negotiations on an agreement on a reciprocal visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic passports. to this end, on 14 september 2015, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations and discuss negotiating directives for an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. in the context of the eu-china mobility and migration dialogue, the eu and the people’s republic of china agreed on a cooperation package of measures in the area of irregular migration and visa policy, including a reciprocal visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic passports. negotiations on the agreement were opened on 21 september 2015 and were successfully finalised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i hope that the visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step forward towards full reciprocal visa-free regime for holders of ordinary passports. visa liberalisation is of great importance. visa waiver will reduce time spent in consulates and reduce travel related costs. the conditions for direct human contact will be created, which is an essential condition for the development of equal economic, cultural and scientific relations.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility is a very important process that is in the interest of both sides to develop. i welcome and support the initiative of both countries to lift the short-stay visa requirement for holders of diplomatic passports. i also deeply regret that the european union negotiators were unable to agree on visa-free travel for eu citizens to china. i am well aware and pleased that china is taking the initiative to allow eu citizens to enjoy up to 5 days visa-free transit at certain points, but i am convinced that a visa-free regime is essential for a wider dialogue between the two economic poles, at least for eu citizens. that is what i call on the european commission to do.
in writing. ‒ during the financial and economic crisis, member states adopted austerity measures to balance their budgets. greece and cyprus are experiencing particularly severe economic problems. in this context, it is therefore necessary to ensure the implementation of the main eu funding instruments, and in particular the european structural and investment funds (esif). the objective of articles 24 and 120 (3) of the general provisions regulation (gpr) is to help member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and receiving financial assistance to make the most of the investment opportunities provided for under the european structural and investment funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. i therefore agree that, in the light of the economic situation in the countries concerned, the period during which additional support may be granted could be extended.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the general provisions regulation (gpr) which allows the commission to pay higher payments to countries in economic difficulties (the so-called 'supplementary payments'). the financial and economic crisis has weighed heavily on national economies, leading member states to take drastic austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the main eu funding instruments, namely the european structural and investment funds (esif). as national budgets are heavily burdened, it can be difficult for countries experiencing budgetary difficulties to find sufficient funds for national co-financing of regional policy projects. the general provisions regulation aims to help member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and receiving financial assistance to make the most of the investment opportunities provided by the european structural and investment funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. on 27 june 2016, the commission submitted a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council on that extension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the current proposal would allow the commission to continue making increased payments to any member state which will benefit from financial assistance after 30 june 2016 for the period it will be under this support mechanism, without modifying the overall the european structural and investment funds allocation in 2014-2020. until now programme implementation has been often challenging, not least as a result of the liquidity problems resulting from fiscal consolidation. this is particularly the case for those member states which have been most affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed amendments to the regulation as they will help member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and receiving financial support to make the most of investment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ this short but much-needed regulation will help member states in difficulty to balance their public finances. this is particularly important given that eu investments are co-financed by the member states, which often invest their own money first and only then recover part of it from eu funds. this creates significant budgetary pressures, especially in countries such as cyprus, which not only suffers from financial difficulties but has also moved from one cohesion policy group to another due to its level of economic development. i therefore support this legislation as an example of european solidarity and a precedent which i hope other eu member states in difficulty will be able to take advantage of.
in writing. ‒ on 14 march 2016, the prosecutor general of the paris court of appeal transmitted requests for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen in two cases of incitement to racial hatred pending before the pre-trial investigating judges of the paris circuit court (2211/15/21 and 2226/15/9), relating to the same facts, which were announced in plenary on 8 june 2016. members of the european parliament have, in principle, the right to freedom of expression, but this right does not give them the freedom to defame, insult, incite hatred or insult the honour or to express opinions contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it has therefore been decided to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen. two pre-trial judges of the paris regional court have requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen on suspicion of criminal activity. jean-marie le pen is accused of inciting racial hatred in a video posted online on 6 june 2014. since there is no link between the statements at issue and jean-marie le pen's parliamentary activities, he did not act in his capacity as a member of the european parliament. the european parliament therefore decides to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen and instructs the president to forward this decision and the report of the committee responsible to the french authorities without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. jean-marie le pen was accused of promoting racial hatred in an online video on 6 june 2014. due to the fact that there is no connection between the issue of jean-marie le pen’s statements and his parliamentary activity, he did not act as a member of the european parliament. that is why the european parliament should decide to waive jean-marie le pen’s immunity and instruct its president to forward the decision and the report by the committee to the french authorities.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament may not be questioned, detained or prosecuted for opinions expressed or votes cast in the course of their duties, but this right does not give them the freedom to defame, insult, incite hatred or insult their honour. the pre-trial judges of the paris district court have requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen, accused of inciting racial hatred in a video posted online in 2014. in view of this, and the fact that there is no link between the statements of jean-marie le pen at issue and his parliamentary activities, and that he was not acting in his capacity as a member of the european parliament, i support the ep's proposal to waive jean-marie le pen's immunity and thus to allow the law enforcement authorities to investigate the case.
in writing. ‒ accusations of incitement to hatred are extremely serious, especially when they are made against a member of the european parliament. we cannot allow european immunity to help us hide from responsibility for inciting hatred, especially when there is footage to support such accusations. i therefore vote in favour and hope that the french judiciary will quickly clarify the merits of these allegations.
in writing. ‒ at the plenary session of 11 may 2016, the president informed that he had received a request from jane collins on 3 may 2016 to uphold her immunity. on the basis of the explanatory statement of the action as amended by judge m.d.j. warby's order of 29 april 2015, mr collins made and published a speech at the uk independence party conference in doncaster on 26 september 2014 which was published in the media and in the public domain (including a live broadcast of the event on the bbc parliamentary tv channel) and which insulted the honour and dignity of the members of the united kingdom parliament who brought the action. given that there is no direct and obvious link between the disputed statements and the duties of jane collins as a member of the european parliament, since they are not related to her activities as a member of the european parliament or to the policy areas of the european union and were made in the course of national political debates, it has been decided not to protect the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of jane collins, member of the european parliament. jane collins has applied to have her privileges and immunities protected in a civil action brought against her in the royal courts of justice, london. that part of the application relates to the fact that jane collins has already been prevented from attending parliament's meetings by the appointment of court sessions in the case brought against her. this also relates to the fact that jane collins has filed a civil action in the united kingdom for damages (including major damages) caused by defamation and insults, as well as a cease and desist action against her, demanding that she cease to repeat statements that are contested. in the absence of a direct and obvious link between the contested statements and the duties of jane collins as a member of the european parliament, since they are not related to her activities as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union and were made in the course of national political debates, the european parliament decides not to invoke the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. jane collins, mep, asked the european parliament to defend her privileges and immunities in view of the civil case brought against her at the royal section of the supreme court in london. this application is related to the fact that jane collins would allegedly be prevented from going to meetings in the european parliament because the trial hearings had deliberately been scheduled for the same time. however, in the absence of a direct and clear connection between the impugned statements and the duties of jane collins as a member of the european parliament, given that the statements do not relate to her activities as an mep or to the european union’s policies and were made in a national political debate, the european parliament should decide not to defend jane collins’s privileges and immunities.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament may not be questioned, detained or prosecuted for opinions expressed or votes cast in the course of their duties, but this right does not give them the freedom to defame, insult, incite hatred or insult their honour. a civil action for damages (including serious damages) for libel and slander in the context of national political debates has been brought in the united kingdom against jane collins, member of the european parliament. given that there is no direct and obvious link between the disputed statements and jane collins' duties as a member of the european parliament, since they are not related to her activities as a member of the european parliament or to the policy areas of the european union, i support the ep's proposal to waive jane collins' immunity and thus allow law enforcement authorities to investigate the case.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution by which the european parliament refuses to defend the immunity and privileges of jane collins in the london trial. in this case, jane collins is accused of libel and the very fact that she is on trial in the united kingdom does not prevent her from performing her duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 5 january 2016, mario borghezio lodged an application for the protection of his privileges and immunities in a criminal case pending before the court of milan. according to the prosecutor's office, mr borghezio is suspected of promoting ideas based on superiority and racial and ethnic hatred through his radio broadcast. it is clear from the facts of the case, as established by the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs and the hearing which preceded it, that the statements made by mr borghezio during the interview are not directly and manifestly connected with his activities as a member of the european parliament. since those statements infringe article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and cannot therefore be considered as having been made in the exercise of the duties of a member of the european parliament, it has been decided not to waive the immunity and privileges of mr mario borghezzi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of mario borghezzi, member of the european parliament. according to the information provided by the prosecution, mr borghezio is suspected of promoting ideas based on superiority and racial and ethnic hatred through a radio show, and such conduct is subject to liability under italian law. on the same radio show, mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and competence of the new member of the italian government, the new minister for integration. it is clear from the facts of the case, as established by the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs and the hearing which preceded it, that the statements made by mr borghezio during the interview are not directly and manifestly connected with his activities as a member of the european parliament. the european parliament therefore decides not to waive the immunities and privileges of mr mario borghezzi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament has decided not to defend the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio, mep. according to a report, mario borghezio was asked on a radio show to comment on the appointment and competence of the new minister for integration in the new italian government. given his comments during the show, he is suspected of having promoted ideas based on superiority and racial and ethnic hatred – and under italian law can be held liable for such behaviour. mr borghezio’s statements did not appear to relate to him as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament may not be questioned, detained or prosecuted for opinions expressed or votes cast in the course of their duties, but this right does not give them the freedom to defame, insult, incite hatred or insult their honour. in a criminal case before the milan court, mep m. borghezio is accused of promoting ideas based on superiority and racial and ethnic hatred in a radio programme. in view of this, i support the ep's proposal to waive mr borghezio's immunity and thus allow law enforcement authorities to investigate the case.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution by which the european parliament refuses to defend the immunity and privileges of my colleague mario borghezio in the milan trial. in the present case, maria borghezio is accused of libel and the very fact that he is on trial in italy does not prevent him from exercising his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the council and parliament agreed that the most effective and cost-effective way to avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european union agency for railways is to strengthen the work of these institutions and to ensure that statistics relating to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders. these mous are not only important tools for optimising the use of existing information and reducing administrative burden, but also ensure that the legislative requirements for better use of rail transport statistics are met. they will provide easily accessible data and reliable information on the progress of eu rail policy to all categories of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this recommendation on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation on rail transport statistics provisions relating to the collection of data on freight, passengers and traffic events. in its discussions with the council, the european parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to include infrastructure data, in particular on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), which was one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). parliament stressed that it was crucial to have a clear picture of how ertms is being developed in the union, as the eu has spent millions of euros to finance this type of infrastructure, but because of inconsistent deployment and delays in deployment, there are no concrete results in terms of technical requirements for the use of the system. parliament also decided that eurostat should provide statistics on stations accessible to persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons, and on the use of crossborder railway infrastructure. as regards the accidents which the commission proposed to remove from the scope of the regulation, parliament considered that the statistics on railway accidents should remain within the scope of the regulation and even be extended to include accidents and incidents involving the transport of dangerous goods and accidents in transit. parliament considers it essential that eu citizens have easy access to data relating to the implementation of eu policies, in accordance with the principle of a single window.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation. the european parliament has decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be expanded to include data on infrastructure because it is extremely important to get a clear impression of how the eu has developed the european rail traffic management system. also, parliament has stated that statistics on rail accidents should remain within the scope of the regulation, which can even be extended to include accidents involving dangerous goods and disasters. it is important that eu citizens should have easy access to data related to the implementation of eu policies.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the ep's report on amendments to the regulation in the field of rail transport statistics. on the basis of those amendments, the scope of the regulation should be extended to include infrastructure data, in particular the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), which was one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). this will help to give a clear impression of the development of ertms in the union, as the eu has spent millions of euros to finance this type of infrastructure, but due to inconsistent deployment and delays in deployment, no concrete results have been achieved so far in terms of the technical requirements for the use of the system.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. in particular, greater efforts are needed to establish a well-functioning internal market that will help to revive the railway sector. rail freight and passenger services must become more competitive and attractive. they should also be involved as much as possible in the diversified transport sector. the proper monitoring and development of the common transport policy and the creation of a common railway area require accurate and objective statistics on rail freight and passenger transport. in order to reduce the administrative burden, statistics should be transparent, public and accessible to the public. in addition, the legal framework for european rail transport statistics should be updated, optimised and simplified to the greatest extent possible in order to make it flexible and able to adapt appropriately to changing conditions.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the positions of the parliament and the council on the harmonisation of the rail statistics regulation were easily reconciled. indeed, the adoption of this document will reduce the workload of statistical collection, as the railway agency and eurostat will no longer have to do the same work. at the same time, it is good that the scope of such an important task as the collection of information on accidents has not been reduced. i believe that this document will directly contribute to both better regulation and the creation of better railways in europe.
in writing. ‒ at first reading, parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway transport of goods to include passenger transport. the parliament believes that a successful policy to strengthen inland waterway transport in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the regulation currently in force would apply to inland waterway transport the same conditions as for the maritime, air and road transport sectors, where statistics are collected covering both goods and passengers. parliament also limited and clarified the powers conferred on the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this recommendation on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation on statistical provisions for the carriage of goods by inland waterway. in consultation with the council, the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on the carriage of goods by inland waterway to include passenger transport. the parliament believes that a successful policy to strengthen inland waterway transport in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the regulation currently in force would apply to inland waterway transport the same conditions as for the maritime, air and road transport sectors, where statistics are collected covering both goods and passengers. the european parliament also agreed to align the provisions of the regulation with the treaty provisions on the delegation of powers and the conferral of implementing powers on the commission. however, parliament has limited and better defined the powers conferred on the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's report supporting the council's position to extend the application of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway transport of goods to passenger transport. the parliament believes that a successful policy to strengthen inland waterway transport in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the regulation currently in force would apply to inland waterway transport the same conditions as for the maritime, air and road transport sectors, where statistics are collected covering both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. i believe that inland waterway transport can only become a strong and competitive part of the transport sector if it is based on reliable and objective statistics. it is therefore essential to ensure that statistics are collected on both goods and passengers. it is essential to ensure that a common methodology for the compilation of statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway is applied throughout the eu. the procedure for quality reports, their structure, periodicity and elements of comparability should therefore be laid down. in order to achieve the objectives pursued, the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated and implementing acts, but their scope and duration should be defined. delegated acts should be adopted only for the purpose of aligning the regulation with changes in the international level of coding and nomenclature and of the limit values.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that parliament has succeeded in extending the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway transport of goods to passenger transport at first reading. in my view, a successful policy to strengthen inland waterway transport in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the regulation currently in force would apply to inland waterway transport the same conditions as for the maritime, air and road transport sectors, where statistics are collected covering both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ although the customs union is considered one of the cornerstones of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still a lack of equal treatment of customs legislation and enforcement of sanctions. this means that the rules are the same but the penalties for infringement are very different, i.e. a company may lose its status as an authorised economic operator in one member state for the same infringement, but not in another. these differences result in a lack of trust between administrations, and customs trust and cooperation are essential for the good administration of the customs union and the protection of the eu's financial interests. i therefore support the view of the committee on legal affairs that the legal basis for the directive on breaches of union customs law and sanctions should be articles 33 and 114 tfeu in the legal framework, which would help to remove obstacles to the free movement of goods or the freedom to provide services or distortions of competition and improve the system of cooperation between customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions in the european union. on 13 december 2013, the european commission published a proposal for a directive on the legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions in the union. although the customs union is considered one of the cornerstones of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still a lack of a uniform approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same, but the penalties for breaching them are very different. the customs union and trade policy are an exclusive competence of the european union and only the eu can develop a common approach to ensure the implementation of customs legislation. the member states have undertaken to pursue two objectives, namely the effective interaction and functioning of the customs administrations as if they were one single administration, ensuring controls that produce uniform results and support legitimate business activities, but also ensuring the necessary protection of the financial interests of the union. however, it is sufficiently clear that without an integrated approach to enforcement, including sanctions, it is not possible to achieve the functioning of the customs administrations of the member states as one, in particular in view of the significant differences in the sanctioning systems of the member states as shown in the 2010 report of the customs sanctions project group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's proposed amendments to the directive on the legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions in the union. the commission proposal establishes a common legal framework for the assessment and sanctioning of customs infringements, laying down common rules and thus closing the gaps created by the differences in legal regimes. this contributes to the uniform assessment of economic operators in the eu and enhances the effective protection of the financial interests of the union and the enforcement of customs law.
in writing. ‒ the issue of infringements of the eu customs legislation and the sanctions legal framework is a complex one and it seems that a compromise between the two parties to the legislative process will not be reached for some time. at the same time, i hope that the council and the commission will listen to the arguments of the representatives of eu citizens, particularly in relation to the need to strengthen the harmonisation of the customs systems of the member states, to make the application of penalties for infringements uniform. at the same time, i would also like to express my doubts about the appropriateness of parliament's sufficiently rigorous position, in particular the requirement that member states be given the possibility to apply criminal rather than non-criminal sanctions in accordance with national law and union law, where this is necessary because of the nature and gravity of the infringement concerned, in order to ensure that the sanctions applied are dissuasive, effective and proportionate. i would think that the commission's proposal, which provides for a detailed gradation of penalties, was much more balanced.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2016 aims to create 35 additional permanent posts with a view to recruiting additional security staff in the european parliament. the recent terrorist attacks have prompted the european union institutions to review their security needs and determine whether additional funding is needed as early as 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the council's position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which specifically relates to the security of the institutions. this draft amending budget proposes to increase the budget for security in european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service by a total of eur 15,8 million. the draft amending budget aims to create 35 additional permanent posts to provide additional security staff to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament approves that the budget to secure of the institutions should be reinforced by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service in order to raise the level of security against such threats as terrorists attacks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the budgetary amendments proposed by the council to allocate more funds to the security of the eu institutions in brussels, in view of the terrorist attacks in 2016 and the growing threat of extremist acts.
in writing. ‒ given the past terrorist attacks and the threat they pose in the future, the security of institutions must be given due consideration. i think the proposal to create additional permanent posts for security staff is not appropriate. it is also essential that parliament adhere properly and in solidarity with the other institutions to the 5% reduction target. therefore, in order to ensure the maximum level of security, new security arrangements should be established for the implementation of surveillance inside and outside union buildings and any additional staff should be outsourced.
in writing. - i doubt the need for this legislation. i agree that the terrorist attacks in france and belgium have raised some public security concerns, but that is a matter for the national authorities. and he does it successfully. i do not think that we should create a european security service for the institutions of the european union or even waste time debating this when there is more important work to be done.
in writing. ‒ as the islamic republic of iran has fulfilled its commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action, the council decision lifted all sanctions against the country in connection with its nuclear tests. i therefore support the renewal of relations with iran and the development of a new cooperation strategy. the fight for the abolition of the death penalty in iran must also continue in a clear and principled manner in order to secure the eu's human rights and foreign policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines the european union's strategy towards iran following the nuclear deal. the joint comprehensive plan of action, otherwise known as the iran nuclear deal, was a major european diplomatic achievement and should now not only bring a major improvement in eu-iran relations, but also bring more stability to the region as a whole. now both sides have a responsibility to ensure that it is strictly and fully implemented. parliament stressed the importance of developing the parliamentary dimension of eu-iran relations and welcomed the renewed eu-iran political dialogue, including on human rights issues. it also encourages the involvement of representatives of the judiciary, the security forces and civil society in the development of the future human rights dialogue. the european parliament considers that the full normalisation of relations can only take place in parallel with the continued implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action through regular and continuous dialogue and that the urgent priority should be to broaden the scope of eu-iran relations in areas where there is a common understanding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the iran nuclear deal was a notable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and for european diplomacy in particular. the report stresses that trade and renewed access to the global rule-based trading system is a potential way to break iran’s isolation, and that trade could be an important tool for strengthening the political dialogue and stimulating cooperation among countries in the region, with a view to increasing regional development, employment and stability in the wider region.
in writing. ‒ iran is an important partner of the eu. it is therefore necessary to develop eu-iran relations continuously, enhanced by cooperation and mutual interest. particular attention should be paid to areas such as trade, energy, human rights, cooperation in the civil nuclear sector, migration, the environment, the fight against international threats such as drugs, humanitarian cooperation, transport, research, education, culture and regional issues. in this context, it is important to implement a comprehensive strategy, with a gradual and comprehensive approach. this strategy should help address trade, economic and social issues, ensure appropriate sectoral cooperation, regional security, the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights. it should be noted that the decision by the council to lift all nuclear-related sanctions against iran following the implementation of the provisions of the nuclear agreement will allow for the resumption of relations with iran and will provide opportunities and benefits for both sides.
in writing. ‒ the eu's strategy towards iran is an attempt to reconcile two incompatible issues: punishing the theocratic regime for its human rights abuses, deterring military expansion, while promoting human links with this ancient and fascinating civilization. i agree with the draft strategy. i would even say that it could have been more focused on developing human relations, while, of course, stating that the eu will not tolerate aggressive foreign policy and human rights abuses at home.
in writing. ‒ corruption and money laundering account for 5% of global annual gdp and in developing countries, illicit financial flows (iffs), including corruption, are about 10 times the amount of official development assistance (oda) allocated to these countries. i therefore agree that the eu must help developing or impoverished countries to prioritise measures to fight corruption and organised crime and to develop strong local and national systems and institutions to tackle corruption in line with their development agendas, i.e. to establish independent and competent regulatory and law enforcement systems and tax authorities, but also to support ngos, independent media and parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, which deals with the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution. the european parliament recalls that member states should transfer and apply existing measures at eu and international level in order to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. parliament called on the commission to complete its assessment of the transposition measures as soon as possible, to inform it fully of the results and, if necessary, to initiate infringement procedures. calls on the member states to transpose the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order in criminal matters as a key instrument for strengthening police and judicial cooperation in the european union; the european parliament regrets that the commission has not yet published its 2nd anti-corruption report, which it should have published at the beginning of 2016. it therefore asks the commission to submit it as soon as possible and stresses that the report on the fight against corruption should not only cover the situation in the member states but also include a chapter on the institutions of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. i support the establishment of a specialist europol unit to combat organised criminal groups which operate in several sectors at the same time. also, the member states should set up secure and effective mechanisms in the current institutional framework to ensure that investigations into organised crime are properly coordinated and that mutual trust among law enforcement authorities in the member states is fostered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report by the ep which outlines the main problems facing the fight against corruption. in addition to highlighting the methods of operation of criminal groups, this report calls on the commission and the member states to take concrete action to set up a special europol unit to combat organised crime groups operating simultaneously in different sectors. i support the provisions of the report which call for a review of existing legislation to establish effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions; to develop minimum standards for the detection and sanctioning of criminal offences; and to prevent criminal organisations and corruption from entering the legal economy.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. it should be noted that the primary responsibility for security lies with the member states, but that they can no longer ensure security on their own. this requires joint and coordinated action in the first place, as organised crime is a threat not only to the eu but also to the world. eu internal and global security are closely interlinked. the fight against organised crime and terrorism is a shared european responsibility. it is therefore necessary to ensure the proper transposition of existing legislation, to monitor its application and to assess its effectiveness. the fight against organised crime and corruption requires a more robust legislative framework and a proper prioritisation and structure of action. more effective judicial and police cooperation at eu level needs to be promoted. the eu must deal a strong blow to the legacy of criminal organisations and encourage their further exploitation for social purposes and prevent criminal organisations and corruption from entering the legal economy. the specific role of the eppo should be highlighted. the establishment of an independent european public prosecutor's office, free from political influence and pressure, is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ corruption is a fundamental problem in any administration. the development of good governance is not possible without the eradication of corruption. it is remarkable that the eu has not yet joined the greco group, at least in declaring good governance as its priority. i fully support the document under consideration. i believe that progress in this area, both at member state and eu level, should become a regular item on the agenda of parliament, at least once a year.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to it. there are several reasons for this, the most important of which is the growth of organised crime, which today poses a global threat and requires joint and coordinated action by the member states of the european union. let us remember that this type of crime mainly affects economic issues and corruption among officials. the european institutions should therefore include legal and political instruments to allow for a better exchange of information between countries and should promote a common approach to combating so-called cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ despite the global economic crisis, international migration flows are increasing according to the un, and cooperation and exchange of information and good practices between countries of origin, transit and arrival are essential to prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the situation of human rights and migration in third countries. the european parliament expresses its solidarity with people forced to flee their country, including because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and particularly extreme poverty. it also expresses concern at the serious human rights violations suffered by many migrants in many countries of transit or destination. parliament stressed that the european union and its member states must set an example by promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, in particular within their own territory, so that they can be trusted when dealing with migration and human rights issues in third countries. parliament recalls the importance of identifying stateless persons in order to grant them the protection provided for in international law and urges the member states to develop procedures for determining statelessness and to exchange good practices, including the application of legislation and practices relating to the prevention of new cases of statelessness among children. furthermore, it points out that the european union must constantly address the problem of statelessness as part of its external relations policy, especially given that statelessness is one of the main causes of forced migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report. i express my deep concern at the dramatic challenges and grave human rights violations faced by many migrants in numerous countries of transit or destination. i believe that the eu and its member states must lead by example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, in particular within their own borders, in order to be credible when discussing migration and human rights in third countries. the report did not present well situation of children in the light of human rights in third world countries which deserves in-depth analysis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the ep which gives an overview of the situation of human rights and migration in third countries. this report analyses a wide range of issues: the fight against smugglers and traffickers, the vulnerability of migrants and stateless persons, the exploitation of unaccompanied minors and children. i support the provisions calling for more effective coordination and evaluation of the implementation, impact and sustainability of the various eu financial instruments. these instruments are now spread over a number of areas such as migration policy, international development cooperation, external policy, neighbourhood policy and humanitarian aid, and have been implemented in more than 400 projects over the period 2004-2014, with a total investment of over eur 1 billion. i am in favour of agreements with third countries stipulating that a large part of this aid should be used to overcome the social, economic and political crisis that is driving migration. this would help to reduce migration flows towards the eu's borders. i am also in favour of strengthening the protection and control of the eu's external borders and the role of the eu institutions responsible for this, namely frontex and easo.
in writing. ‒ each member state must first take care of its own citizens, providing them with adequate living conditions, social and health protection. the union and its member states must lead by example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, but this cannot be at the expense of citizens and national interests. a change in approach to migration policy is urgently needed to reduce the scale of migration. real action is needed to address the root causes of the crises that trigger such mass migration. similarly, when refugees are redistributed across the eu, it is appropriate to abandon the quota policy. the eu must strengthen its external borders by sending a clear message to economic migrants from third countries that they will be closed. particular attention must be paid to the return of migrants to their countries of origin, where they can be received in full security, with full respect for all their fundamental and procedural rights.
in writing. ‒ the indeed, the very notion of human rights becomes very doubtful when there are no states left and when the individual is dissolved in the waves of migration caused by unrest. the international community therefore faces an important challenge to ensure that the eu's core value of human rights remains protected, regardless of the international situation. i agree with the report. i would also like to point out that there is still a need to focus more on prevention rather than treatment. we should therefore talk more about how the eu can help prevent or manage conflicts. this will also mean that less attention will be paid to refugee issues, simply because of the decrease in the number of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. public limited companies are one of the key players in economic globalisation, financial services and international trade and are obliged to comply with all applicable and valid legislation and international agreements and to respect human rights. i therefore agree that the eu and the member states should continue to pursue the objective of ensuring the best possible protection of human rights by using the most effective means, rather than simply overloading them with administrative and bureaucratic formal rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. the european parliament notes that the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains will contribute to the increasing importance of the role of public limited companies in ensuring respect for human rights and will create a situation in which international norms, rules and cooperation are essential to prevent human rights violations by public limited companies and business enterprises in third countries. parliament is deeply concerned about human rights violations by individuals, public companies, non-state actors and states in third countries, including those resulting from decisions taken by public companies and business enterprises. it also reminds business actors of their responsibility to respect human rights in their global operations, regardless of the location of their users and regardless of whether the host country respects its human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains will make the role that corporations play in ensuring respect for human rights more important and create a situation in which international norms, rules and cooperation are crucial to avoid human rights abuses in third countries. however, i am very concerned by cases of human rights violations committed in third countries, including of some eu corporations and business enterprises management decisions. if companies are found to have caused or contributed to harm, they should take moral but also legal responsibility and must provide effective remedy processes for the individuals and communities affected.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. it is necessary to strengthen the liability of companies for serious human rights violations in third countries. particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of the united nations basic principles on business and human rights worldwide. it is also essential that each member state properly discharge its duty to respect and adequately protect human rights. the importance of corporate social responsibility should be emphasised. companies should assume not only moral but also legal responsibility and properly implement restitution, compensation, rehabilitation and a guarantee that the damage will not be repeated. the commission should also take urgent action to establish binding rules and mechanisms for the application and monitoring of sanctions. any trade and investment agreement must be assessed in terms of its human rights impact. in addition, these agreements must include provisions on human rights and guarantees to mitigate possible threats and adverse effects.
in writing. ‒ committed to the protection of human rights, the european union cannot ignore the violations of human rights in third countries by european companies. this not only undermines the very concept of human rights, as if there were two kinds of people, but also hinders the harmonious development of these countries, and only undemocratic regimes can tolerate the human rights violations committed by transnational corporations. i welcome and support the report. i think that this is a subject that needs to be brought to the attention of european society and the world at large. the same large corporations cannot be left behind, since in many cases human rights violations in their branches in third countries are also the result of the companies' own lack of social responsibility and the lack of appropriate local legal regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas. the eu is currently facing a serious crisis of competition in the gas sector. one of the objectives of the eu lng utilisation and gas storage strategy is to achieve the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards elements of a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and away from dependence on external gas suppliers. this is a very important factor in reducing dependence on russian gas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the european union's strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas. the european parliament welcomes the commission communication on an eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas and considers that an internal energy market fully integrating the use and storage of liquefied natural gas will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union. the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union, which aims to deliver on the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and to move away from dependence on external gas suppliers. parliament stressed that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy. parliament also considers that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the creation of a genuine energy union with a common energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu strategy for lng and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims to gives concrete expression to the eu’s ambition to bring about a quick transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and also aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers. therefore it is crucial that lng and storage operators, in cooperation with national regulatory authorities, would develop new flexible products and services, compliant with the eu current legislation, in order to make lng regasification and storing more attractive and maximise the utilisation of existing lng and storage facilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas. liquefied natural gas (lng) offers europe the opportunity to increase competitiveness and security of supply by reducing the price of natural gas. the role of lng and gas storage, together with increased consumption efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, is crucial in reducing dependence on russian gas.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. a common and robust strategy for the use and storage of lng in the eu should be implemented to help break the energy isolation and reduce the eu's dependence on gas in the long term. in particular, there is a need for better coordination of national energy policies, as further integration of energy policies is in the interests of all member states, taking into account their interests and those of their citizens. it should be noted that the existing and planned lng terminals need to be used as efficiently as possible. the diversification and flexibility of the eu gas system is necessary to ensure security of gas supply, competitiveness and resilience of the supply system. particular attention should be paid to the project to double the capacity of the nord stream pipeline under the baltic sea and its threat to the eu's energy security as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the the question has a double meaning. on the one hand, the report itself should be seen as written from a purely economic perspective, without taking into account the environmental impact of the increase in the use of natural gas. it is a pity that the rapporteur has failed to take account of the constructive proposals of the greens. on the other hand, the report emphasises the very important issue of energy independence and mentions the prospects for the creation of a natural gas market. this is particularly important for energy markets still isolated from the rest of the eu, such as the baltic states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy is a very important one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of fisheries controls in europe. fishermen often complain that they are subject to much stricter fisheries controls than other fishermen in another member state or in other types of fishing. i therefore support the idea that eu fisheries rules should apply equally to all fishermen. it is also necessary to extend controls to cover the whole production chain and to assign inspection at sea to a single authority in order to avoid duplication of controls.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the european union's strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas. the european parliament welcomes the commission communication on an eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas and considers that an internal energy market fully integrating the use and storage of liquefied natural gas will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union. the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union, which aims to deliver on the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and to move away from dependence on external gas suppliers. parliament stressed that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy. parliament also considers that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the creation of a genuine energy union with a common energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is important to ensure effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets. therefore it is necessary to clarify, classify and establish standards for fishing in the different maritime areas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this report on how to harmonise fisheries controls in europe, which was also supported by the ep. the fisheries sector is one of the most important sectors for those interested in the sustainable management of the seas and oceans. eu rules are applied in a substantially different way across member states, as each member state has its own separate legal system and administrative structures, and these differences are inevitably reflected. therefore, in order to strengthen the control of products entering the eu from illegal, undeclared fishing, it is necessary to ensure a uniform level of fisheries control in all member states by harmonising the legal framework. the ep calls on the member states and their respective maritime fisheries control authorities to set up specialised groups of fisheries inspectors and to promote greater cooperation between member states in order to exchange information, control methods and data. the ep believes that the member states, the european fisheries control agency and the commission need to cooperate and coordinate more closely.
in writing. ‒ the issue of harmonising fisheries controls is of particular relevance, as it reflects the dichotomy between the north and the south, i.e. the more prosperous and advanced countries, and the east and the west, i.e. the old and the new eu member states. i am convinced that the speediest possible harmonisation of these economic activities, while ensuring the environmental component of fishing, such as the observance and control of the fishing gear regime, the uniform regulation of nets and other fishing gear, and the provision of flexibility for specific areas and waters, would make a significant contribution to the creation of a more integrated europe.
in writing. ‒ connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on economic growth, competitiveness, employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions. i agree that the ep should support the process of building this trans-european transport network (ten-t) and continue to address the outstanding issues of transport infrastructure connections and accessibility in the eu's central and eastern europe region, connecting estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria. it is clear that the member states and the commission must focus in particular on how to bridge the gap, remove obstacles and ensure a single link for both passenger and freight transport.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the improvement of connectivity and access to transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. quality transport highways are crucial for economic activity in europe and for the quality of life of our citizens. easily accessible and well-connected transport networks, which take account of local, regional, national and cross-border aspects of passenger and freight transport, are the basis for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within and between eu member states. at european level, the trans-european transport network (ten-t) aims to develop an integrated multimodal transport network across the eu, thereby promoting the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and access to this network. the ten-t guidelines and the european infrastructure networks instrument were developed in 2013 and set out the main pillars for the implementation of the eu transport infrastructure policy until 2020. in the design and implementation of projects, member states and the eu will need to pool their resources and work closely together to complete the strategic core network by 2030 and the comprehensive transport network by 2050. the european parliament believes that now is the time for parliament to support the process of building this trans-european transport network and to continue to address the outstanding issues of transport infrastructure connections and accessibility in the eu's central and eastern europe region by connecting estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it is the right time for the european parliament to keep up the momentum of the new ten-t process and further address open challenges regarding the accessibility and connectivity of the transport infrastructure in the member states of the central and eastern european part of the eu, bringing together estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria. the transport infrastructure in member states of this part of the eu has certainly undergone substantial modernisation and improvements, with constant help by the eu, from the pre-accession period to date.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on transport infrastructure connections and accessibility in central and eastern europe. connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a significant impact on economic growth and competitiveness. as the improvement of transport infrastructure will continue to require significant investments, it is important that the member states of central and eastern europe and the commission further strengthen the comprehensive coordination of transport policy and project planning at all stages. it is also important to exploit the full synergies of the financing of the european structural and investment funds and the european infrastructure networks instrument, as well as the resources of the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development.
in writing. ‒ the the text of the communication is, as it were, a motivation in itself to support it. unfortunately, central and eastern europe does not yet have the same quality of transport infrastructure as western europe. and naturally, eu support is very valuable here. on the other hand, the report makes it clear that it proposes rather different projects, such as the construction of motorways in a well-developed italy, the construction of motorways through protected areas and many other activities with very uncertain prospects. i therefore refrained from supporting this report, noting that it very accurately reflected the need to complete the transport links currently under way, such as rail baltica, and that its quality was significantly reduced by the high level of enthusiasm for the construction of new highways.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the report by mep porąba because it unequivocally recommends improving transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, which also includes lithuania. transport development is essential to the quality of life of our citizens and the efficient movement of goods. the report rightly calls on the ep to speed up the legislative process to improve existing and create new links from estonia via lithuania and poland to romania and bulgaria. the restoration of this area is essential to improve the currently inefficient cross-border links. this will also improve connectivity and access to the territories located in the eastern regions of the union. cooperation under macro-regional strategies will certainly help to solve many problems in transport policy.
in writing. ‒ currently there are insufficient instruments to ensure that the core european values laid out in article 2 of the treaty on european union are upheld. when countries join the eu it is ensured that they adhere to the eu values, but as illustrated by the recent developments in poland and hungary, once they are members there is no mechanism to guarantee that these values continue to be maintained. therefore, there is a need to establish a mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this mechanism will oversee the implementation of eu values and will help prevent and correct any breaches made by member states. this mechanism must be applied to all member states equally, it should be a permanent mechanism, objective and evidence-based, and finally, there needs to be close involvement of member state governments. this drf pact will lead to a more united european union as it will strengthen the common core values shared among the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. although europe has a long tradition of democracy, the rule of law and civil liberties, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has been reluctant to acknowledge or even completely refuse to recognise the commonly agreed rules and the eu's powers to enforce them when it tries to remind a member state of its obligations. the eu has a range of instruments to ensure respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, but the instruments are limited in scope and ineffective in themselves. i therefore agree that it is necessary to create a framework that enables the eu to address not only specific breaches of eu law, but also cases of (risk) threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. europe has a long tradition of democracy, the rule of law and civil liberties. moreover, democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are also the fundamental principles and objectives enshrined in the first articles of the treaties of the european union and one of the criteria for eu membership. on the issues of substance, the european union has a number of measures to ensure compliance with its legislation and the treaties. the european commission can instruct member states to adjust their budgets, public health systems or taxation decisions to comply with eu law. in such cases, member states do not argue that they are obliged to comply with eu law under the eu treaties. however, the situation is different when it comes to the obligations laid down in the treaties in the fields of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has been reluctant to acknowledge or refused to acknowledge the commonly agreed rules and the eu's powers to enforce them, when it reminds a member state of its obligations. the commission's actions in this area have been timid and not always taken. it is therefore necessary to establish a framework that enables the eu to address not only specific breaches of eu law, but also threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the new eu mechanism should ensure that all eu member states respect the values enshrined in the eu treaties and set clear, evidence-based and non-political criteria for assessing their records on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights (drf) in a systematic way and on an equal footing. therefore the aim is to incorporate existing drf tools in a single instrument and ensure that they are used to the full.
mr president, vice-president of the commission. a few offers, maybe more christmas. first, it is the european union's identity crisis. we cannot stand any longer at the crossroads between a federal european union and a european union of nation states. and the decision must be swift and clear: it is necessary to forget any federalist ambitions, to abandon the ideology of globalism and the attempt to bulldoze the citizens of the european states with solutions of dubious value. two: change the way we think about immigration policy. abandon the quotas by distributing refugees among the countries of the european union. strengthen the european union's external borders by sending a clear message that they will be closed to economic migrants from third countries. and actually close them. and the third. democracy is not a dictate from the brussels institutions to the community's members, disguised as concern for its fate. restoring trust in the institutions, restoring trust in commissioners and taking decisions for the good of society - this is the best thing the european commission could start doing without waiting for 2017.
thank you, madam chairman. indeed, we are looking for growth, jobs and quality jobs, and the goal is one: that our european union citizens, working in quality jobs with normal pay, can support themselves and their children. but is that so? i want to draw attention to one recommendation that is absolutely necessary, how we will fight child poverty. in fact, 26 million children in the european union are living in poverty. and to do that, we need to create a child guarantee, that every one of our children has access to proper health care, that they have access to education, proper care, proper educational opportunities, proper housing and proper nutrition. it's a very specific offer. second specific suggestion. the overcoming of poverty among women. the commission really has to make recommendations to the member states to ensure that women are paid, well, the same as men when they work, because they are very much at a disadvantage. these are two specific recommendations that i would like you to consider.
in writing. i am very pleased that all member states have finally agreed on this very important directive. websites and mobile applications of ministries, hospitals, courts and other public institutions will be made more accessible to disabled and older people. they can use aids such as screen readers, alternative text or audio information to help them navigate the internet. we in the european parliament have made it possible for the new rules to cover mobile applications. the websites will have to publish information on their compliance with the new eu rules, as well as what content does not comply and why. browsers will have the possibility to notify website owners of non-compliance with accessibility requirements. some of the content of the websites, such as the formats of software files, pre-recorded video or audio clips or archived content, may not be compatible with them, but this information must be provided to the user in an appropriate manner and format upon request. this provision was also introduced by parliament. the rules have now been agreed with the eu council, removing the obstacles to their entry into force. eu countries will have almost two years to transpose these rules into their own law. by then, the newly developed websites will have to be adapted to the new requirements in another two years, the newly developed websites in one year and all mobile applications in almost three years.
mr junker, mr tusk, we are talking about free trade agreements, and at the same time the biggest trading companies are competing with each other by raising the prices of basic products. we are talking about trade agreements with the united states and canada, which do not have enough safeguards not only to create new jobs but also to preserve existing ones in europe. we talk about peace in syria, repeatedly calling for a ceasefire, but apart from words, we also lack the courage to take action that would remove the causes of the war. on the eve of a council meeting, another round of negotiations on peace agreements in ukraine appears to have been concluded. it is true that no one talks too much about these negotiations, which were conducted by the leaders of germany, france and russia and ukraine. perhaps because there is no specific agreement in the treaties. mr president, the attempt to create a secure future for europe is still being made in words. but the future is not built by them, it is built by action. it seems that towards europe, as towards the famous titanic, which also seemed unfathomable, is drifting an iceberg of languages, bureaucratic procedures and inefficiency.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget needs to strike a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. i therefore agree that the 2017 budget must be in line with the europe 2020 objectives, which are its main focus and top priority, and of course provide additional funding for the youth guarantee.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget needs to strike a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. i therefore agree that the 2017 budget must be in line with the europe 2020 objectives, which are its main focus and top priority, and of course provide additional funding for the youth guarantee.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. the european parliament welcomes the integration of gender equality as a comprehensive objective of eu budgetary policy into eu funds and programmes. recalls that decisions on expenditure and revenue have different effects on women and men, and therefore stresses that gender budgeting is the most important tool to combat gender inequalities; notes that the commission's communication on the implementation of the budget for 2017 was published in the official journal of the european union on 19 december 2017 and that it was accompanied by a report on the implementation of the budget for 2017; unfortunately, we are still a long way from achieving all these goals. parliament therefore considers that the european structural and investment funds should provide sufficient funding for measures to promote and support quality education, employment opportunities and job creation for women and girls, with a view to improving their access to quality job offers and to increasing their access to continuing education, apprenticeships or traineeships.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the european parliament's position on the eu budget for next year. this item is intended to record revenue from the repayment of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. the european parliament also calls on the council to provide additional support for farmers, the cultural sector and the problems caused by migration. the adoption of the resolution will be followed by the opening of the 21 day interinstitutional negotiations on the adoption of the eu budget for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i did not approve the draft budget for 2017 because it is too costly for the eu administration and lacks the financial proposals that ordinary citizens need. this is due, among other things, to the insufficient support for the development of so-called small enterprises and small family businesses. moreover, and this is very important from the point of view of the interests of agricultural countries, such as lithuania, despite the reports, no new financial instrument has been created to allow for immediate intervention in the event of a crisis in the agricultural sector, without prejudice to the funds allocated to annual direct payments. it is a pity that the word was not kept in this case.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is continuously concerned about the inadequacy of the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff). notes also that a number of new crises and priorities have emerged in recent years, in particular the migrant and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security problems, the agricultural crisis, the question of european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funding, and the persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people; i therefore agree that it is necessary to ensure a realistic, reliable and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current programme in order to deliver on the political commitments and strategic objectives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the european parliament supports the commission's intention to simplify the financial rules and considers this to be an important part of the mid-term adjustment of the mff. takes note, therefore, of the commission's proposal to update the financial regulation as a whole and to amend 15 sectoral regulations; parliament stresses that the aim of simplification is to improve and rationalise the implementation conditions for beneficiaries and commits itself to achieving a successful outcome in accordance with this provision within a reasonable timeframe. the european parliament stresses that the effective implementation of the eu budget is the paramount priority of the parliament and therefore welcomes the commission's proposal to re-enter in the eu budget the commitment appropriations cancelled as a result of the non-implementation of the actions for which they were originally earmarked, as one of the key demands of the parliament expressed in its resolution of 6 july 2016 on the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. i believe that the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently jeopardising the credibility of the european union. however, the council should take its responsibility to ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective. therefore, serious actions should be taken in order to strengthen the commitments of the mff by starting with responsible control mechanism of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a good opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently facing the eu. in recent years, many new crises and priorities have emerged: the migrant and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security problems, the agricultural crisis, and high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. the commission's proposal for amendments to the mff package is therefore welcomed.
in writing. ‒ in the context of recent fluctuations in the world oil market, the general deterioration of the european international trade in fertilisers (to the benefit of chinese producers) and the decline of cheap gas regions outside europe, estonian companies eesti energia as, nitrofert as and virtu keemia grupp as have closed plants or reduced production, resulting in the termination of employment contracts for many employees. estonia has therefore submitted an application to receive financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) ('egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals'). as estonia has fulfilled the conditions of the egf regulation, i agree that estonia should receive financial assistance to ensure the survival of the redundant workers in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemical products. on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the needs of estonia in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the companies 'eesti energia as', 'nitrofert as' and 'viru keemia grupp as', which are active in the economic sector classified under the nace division (production of chemicals and chemical products) in the eastern visayas region (nuts level 2 region: ee00-eesti). this is the ninth application to be considered for the 2016 budget and the second in the chemicals and chemical products sector and the first in the coke and refined petroleum products sector. it concerns 800 redundant workers. the request was lodged with the commission on 11 may 2016 and the additional information was submitted by 25 may 2016. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant to eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2016 budget and the 2nd for the manufacture of chemicals and chemical products sector, the 1st application for the manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products sector and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf for estonia. it concerns 800 workers made redundant. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from estonia egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemical products). on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of estonia in order to support redundancies in the enterprises 'eesti energia as', 'nitrofert as' and 'viru keemia grupp as', which are active in the economic sector (chemicals and chemical products) in the district of eastern virumaa. the ep agrees that estonia is eligible for financial support of eur 1 131 358 to be used for vulnerable workers in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the idea of eu money supporting the polluting oil and chemical industries seems a bit strange. however, given that this unsustainable industry has not been able to withstand the pressures of the market and globalisation, and that ordinary workers have fallen victim to these pressures, this case is a perfect example of what the egf was created to do. i very much hope that the support is being given to help green businesses to start up.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. i agree that it is necessary for public sector bodies to ensure that websites and mobile applications are accessible not only to consumers but also to people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, in which we supported the adoption of the crucial directive on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. this important european decision will affect millions of people with visual, motor or other disabilities. the new rules aim to ensure better accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications for disabled and older people. currently, the content of the websites of the section is not adapted to them or does not have enhanced accessibility features such as alternative text describing images or audio information. a variety of assistive devices, such as screen readers or head-controlled devices, can help disabled people use computers and browse the internet. the new rules have already been agreed with all member states and, with today's approval by parliament, there are no obstacles to their entry into force and to improving access to mobile applications for people with disabilities. member states will have 21 months to transpose them into national law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. this decision will increase the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications for persons with visual, motor or other disabilities. the new rules provide for specific measures, such as the use of alternative text describing images or audio information on websites. these rules have been agreed with all member states and, with today's approval by parliament, there are no obstacles to their entry into force and to improving access to mobile applications for people with disabilities. member states will have 21 months to transpose them into national law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on plant protection products and amending the regulations of the european parliament and of the council. the general objective of the regulation is to halt the risks posed by new pests and diseases in the plant health sector, which are the result of global trade and climate change. the objective is to modernise plant health measures relating to trade both within the eu and with third countries, with a focus on risk-based approaches.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which deals with plant protection measures. plant health is of key importance for plant production, for mosses, for natural natural habitats and planted areas, for natural ecosystems, for ecosystem services and for biodiversity in the union. species harmful to plants and plant products are a threat to plant health and the threat of their introduction into the european union is currently increased by the globalisation of trade and climate change. in order to combat this threat, it is necessary to adopt measures to identify and reduce to an acceptable level the phytosanitary risk posed by those pests. the need for such measures has long been recognised. criteria should therefore be established to identify pests for which measures are necessary to prevent their introduction into and spread throughout the eu. such pests are referred to as european union quarantine pests. criteria for the identification of pests for which it is necessary to adopt control measures applicable only to one or more parts of that site should also be laid down. such pests are referred to as protected zone quarantine pests. where those pests are plants, particular attention should be paid in the implementation of this regulation to those plants which are parasitic on other plants and are the most harmful to plant health.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the recommendation of the ep on amendments to the plant health regulations. the current eu plant health regulatory framework aims to protect the european agricultural and forestry sectors from harmful organisms by preventing their entry into and spread within the eu. the increase in imports in recent years has led to a large number of hotbeds of dangerous pests, which have caused serious damage to forestry. the evaluation of the system put in place in 2010 has shown that amendments to the basic legislation are needed to cover all aspects of this increased risk. the amendments adopted give greater emphasis to prevention, establish a classification of harmful organisms by importance at eu level and in all 28 member states, establish more effective measures to control the emergence and spread of harmful organisms, and improve the regulatory measures for intra-eu movement.
in writing. ‒ the european economic outlook for spring 2016 forecasts that the eu economy will grow more slowly than expected, with euro area gdp expected to grow by only 1.6% and reach 1.8% in 2017. the eu also faces challenges related to a deteriorating international environment and the failure to implement sustainable reforms. i therefore welcome the commission's focus in its 2016 country specific recommendations on three key priorities for further boosting economic growth: investment in innovation, support for growth and job creation, implementation of structural reforms and promotion of sound public financial management. however, the commission should make greater efforts to promote fiscal sustainability in line with the stability and growth pact, while fully applying its flexibility provisions in line with the commission communication of 13 january 2015.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the implementation of the priorities of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies 2016. while we are striving for growth and jobs throughout the european union, the situation is still not improving in many member states, particularly in the areas of social affairs, employment and education. child poverty has increased particularly in europe, with some 20 million children living in or near poverty. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to create the child guarantee, a specific instrument with a specific budget to ensure that every child in europe has access to free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. the commission and the member states should therefore ensure and implement in their policy programmes, taking into account the recommendations made by the ep, that all people have access to the necessary and adequate social protection, health and social services. increased integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market, reduction of working poverty, promotion of gender equality are needed. it is also necessary to promote health and safety at work, strengthen the rights of workers in precarious employment and in non-standard employment contracts and provide for greater social protection for the self-employed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring forecast 2016, as gdp in the eurozone is expected to increase by only 1.6%, reaching 1.8% by 2017. however, the eu responsible institutions should focus on three main priorities to further strengthen economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially balanced structural reforms and encouraging responsible public finance.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the report prepared by the ep which reviews the implementation of the priorities of the european semester for economic policy coordination 2016. i welcome the fact that the commission, in its country-specific recommendations, gives high priority to the three main priorities for growth: investment in innovation, growth and jobs, and structural reforms. however, i believe that the commission should do more to promote fiscal sustainability in line with the stability and growth pact, and take new effective measures to combat social inequality, exclusion and poverty.
in writing. ‒ food products, which are mostly processed, contain trans fats that can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, alzheimer's disease or diabetes, and also promote obesity. also, even a third of consumers are unaware of trans fats, even though they are listed on food labels. in this context, i agree that, in addition to the labelling of products, a maximum level of these fats in food should be established at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the issue of fatty acid transistors (fats) is a priority for parliament and it reiterates its concern about the risks to human health posed by fats. the european parliament underlines that the us has already informed that, in view of the conclusion of 2015 that transisomers of fatty acids are generally not considered safe, food manufacturers will have to remove partially hydrogenated oils from products sold on the us market from mid-2018. parliament also stresses that many eu citizens, especially the most vulnerable, lack information on fatty acid transistors and their health effects, which may hinder consumers from making informed choices about products. according to the world health organisation (who), therefore, the implementation of labelling of fatty acid transistors is likely to be the main cost and the financial impact of the insurance in countries that have implemented the ban on fatty acid transistors has been minimal, given the low cost of implementation and monitoring. the european parliament requests that such a proposal be accompanied by an impact assessment assessing the costs of industrial restructuring resulting from the mandatory threshold and the possibility of passing those costs on to consumers. it also asked the commission to cooperate with the member states to raise awareness of nutrition issues and to enable consumers to make healthier choices, and to cooperate with industry to encourage the substitution of healthier ingredients in their products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. with the given resolution the eu places mandatory limits on industrially-produced trans-fatty acids (tfa) which may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer’s, diabetes and obesity for consumers. denmark was the first eu member state to limit the content of trans fats in oils and fats by law in 2003. the statistics showed that it was a successful legal decision because it significantly reduced deaths caused by cardiovascular disease.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the ep resolution on fatty acid transisomers (fat). industrial trans fats are used in a wide range of food products, from fast food and margarine to chips and sweets. however, studies indicate that excessive consumption may lead to cardiovascular disease, diabetes, atherosclerosis, and obesity. heart disease kills 660,000 people in the eu each year, or 14% of all deaths in the eu. the aim of this resolution is therefore to call for a limitation of the use of these artificial fats. there is currently no regulation at eu level on the restriction or labelling of trans fats. however, some measures are provided for in individual member states. for example, in 2006, food manufacturers in the united states were required to indicate on labels whether their products contained trans fats. this has led the food industry to significantly reduce their use. the introduction of mandatory restrictions is the most effective solution and would help to reduce the impact of the main sources of trans fats and save lives.
it has been rightly noted that it is necessary to restore the confidence of our citizens in the institutions of the european union, and the role of the court of auditors in this process is very important. for several years now, they have stressed in their reports the need for better financial management at both the commission and the member states' level. however, this year it was found that the high level of errors persisted in 2015, in particular in the cost compensation schemes. this situation is not satisfactory and the commission and the member states are not making sufficient efforts to change the principles of payment and control. it should be noted that a growing number of financial instruments, such as the fund for strategic investments, are not financed from the budget of the european union and are not subject to audit. this poses a serious threat to financial reporting and distorts the principles of sound financial management and control. the commission must reform the financial management of the european union to ensure that it delivers real added value and enhances credibility for the whole of the european union and its citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the brussels conference earlier this month sent a clear signal of hope and sent a momentum of action. it showed that political and financial commitment by the international community remain strong. the afghan government has committed to implementing a serious reforms programme. self-reliant afghanistan has to be grounded on good governance, rule of law, economic development and, most importantly, on security. in this regard, i deplore strongly the killing of 30 peaceful civilians in the ghor province by bandits affiliated to isis. this is the very sad news of this morning. i particularly welcome the signing of the joint way forward. it is an extremely important agreement; important for both sides involved as it sets a clear framework for managing migration readmission. having said this, i would like to regret strongly the lack of transparency in closing the deal on this and the fact that parliament was not involved in its drafting at an earlier stage. thus, i call on the high representative and the commission from now onwards to at least keep this house informed on progress regarding the agreement’s implementation. coming back to eu-afghan relations, they must be based on reciprocity. the eu needs to respect its financial pledges and ensure its support for returnees, so they can find jobs and become valuable members of their communities. afghanistan must uphold its obligations by facilitating readmission and the reintegration of its own citizens who do not fulfil the asylum application requirements. it is necessary that afghanistan, the eu and the international community elaborate jointly on this momentum of the brussels conference and do everything in their capacity to support the rebuilding of the state of afghanistan and afghanis’ hope for a better future.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in february this year the council decided not to extend the major restrictive measures vis-à-vis belarus. the sanctions list is almost empty now. has anything been delivered in return to those expectations voiced by the council more than 10 months ago? nothing at all. a total of zero. the so-called elections in september: yet another fake. the osce recommendations: entirely ignored, as many times before. none of the rights of former political prisoners reinstated. the ngos continue to be persecuted by harsh legal measures, such as article 193. death penalty: not abolished. instead, two prisoners executed only in 2016. it is a shame. it is a shame of those who believe that change came. the fact is: the council conclusions are completely disregarded. i am therefore shocked every time i hear the word ‘progress’ when one speaks about belarus. in my view, the european union seems to be continuously dragged into some kind of very dangerous experiment with belarus. we are about to trade human rights for technical cooperation and promises. another eu-belarusian experiment is ongoing in the nuclear sector in haste and secrecy, in violation of the international conventions. on the eu border russia is financing and building a nuclear power plant. i quote president lukashenko: ‘the cheapest in the world.’ a dictator and the kremlin’s always-loyal partner lukashenko will soon be armed with nuclear capacities. the eu cannot just sit and observe silently this construction right on its border. this unsafe site must be frozen immediately.
the political situation in belarus still does not correspond to the principles of democracy, the rule of law, transparent and free elections, freedom of the media, respect for human rights and the abolition of the death penalty, which we support and promote. the recent parliamentary elections again failed to meet osce standards and cannot be considered transparent and fair. we hear both criticism and praise in the press for lukashenka's break with 12 years of ruling party monopoly in parliament: the two appointed, not elected, opposition seats in the parliament do not in any way prove belarus's determination to move towards greater democracy. the unstable geopolitical situation in the region and the growing pressure from russia on the eastern partnership countries, the construction of the astravyansk power plant, force us to seek dialogue with this country. we need to have a very clear strategy for moving belarus in a european direction and for finding a rational balance between what is happening in the country and the long-term prospects for belarus, bringing it closer to europe, especially after the end of the current administration. i think we have to find ways and solutions now to gain the trust of the belarusian public in europe. at the same time, cooperation with opposition political parties, non-governmental organisations, civil society and other institutions in belarus that show a willingness to pursue a democratic path should be strengthened.
the steps taken by minsk to regain the favour of the european union can be welcomed. but let us ask ourselves, how much are the promises of belarus worth? for example, as far back as 2011, belarus made a political commitment to carry out so-called 'stress tests' at the newly built astrakhan nuclear power plant. almost five years have passed, the atomic monster is visible from the lithuanian hills, and the stress tests have not yet begun. moreover, following a visit by a commission representative to astrava last month, it became clear that belarus had not yet decided whether it would carry out these 'stress tests' in full, in accordance with the european union methodology. they won't send a final answer until the end of the month. and today is october 26th. i therefore ask what pressure measures the commission is prepared to apply by the end of october if we still do not receive concrete confirmation that belarus will carry out 'stress tests' at full capacity at the new nuclear power plant. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – the european parliament has numerous times expressed its condemnation of the illegal military coup attempt of 15 july, however, the aftermath of the event and increasing restrictions of civil liberties are highly alarming. a country that has been planning on joining the european union has been denying its citizens a core eu value – freedom of speech. president recep tayyip erdoğan since the coup attempt has closed around 125 media outlets leaving thousands of turkish journalists unemployed and around 130 journalists detained or currently in prison. turkey has jailed more journalists than china or iran, and has proved itself to be the biggest prison for journalists in the world. the failed military coup is now used by erdoğan to implement turkey’s anti-terrorism law which is the main tool of oppression used against journalists. this law was one of the key talking points in the discussion about visa liberalisation for the turkish citizens, yet it has seen no reform. the dire situation in turkey requires major attention from both the european union and the european journalists in order to bring the attention of the world wide community to this issue and to further stop the erosion of civil liberties in turkey.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, eric andrieu, for a very well-written report. it sets out a vision of what the european countryside needs from the current cap reform and the new cap twenty years from now. the problems facing europe's rural areas are not only the fluctuating prices, the inadequate income of farmers and the abuse of intermediaries, but also the relatively high unemployment rates in comparison with urban areas. we need to put more emphasis on the importance of the countryside, quality and organic food, a clean environment, proper social infrastructure. we must also seek a level playing field for farmers, in particular through the harmonisation of direct payments across the european union.
in writing. ‒ while the european council and the council, as union institutions, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union as they use money from the general budget of the european union, the european council and the council do not report to the european parliament on their annual activities. the budget of the european council and the council are also not yet separated, as recommended by parliament in its recent discharge resolutions. i therefore agree that the lack of cooperation between the european council and the council and the european parliament is a negative signal to the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the discharge to be given to the european council and the council in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. the european parliament stresses that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised with the same care as that of the other institutions and that the main elements of this scrutiny are set out in parliament's discharge resolutions of the previous year. parliament calls on the council to provide information on its administrative modernisation process, in particular on the expected impact on the council's budget. calls on the council to adopt the code of conduct as soon as possible in order to ensure the integrity of the institution; reiterates its call on the council to apply the rules on reporting of irregularities more immediately; parliament calls on the council to contribute to the union transparency register in order to ensure the transparency and accountability of this institution. it also recalls its call on the council to develop comprehensive anti-corruption guidelines and independent internal policy instruments within its structures, and its call for a systematic increase in the transparency of legislative procedures and negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors concluded that the payments as a whole for the year ending 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure by the institutions and bodies were free from material error.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the discharge to be given to the european council and the council in respect of the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2014. the resolution calls on the council to improve transparency and democratic accountability for union taxpayers, and to develop comprehensive anti-corruption guidelines and independent internal policy instruments within its structures to increase transparency of legislative procedures and negotiations in order to restore public confidence in the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key nanoelectronics technologies in a wide range of applications. the joint undertaking's financial statements for the year 2014 are presented in a fair and accurate manner in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of its rules and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the commission. however, i agree with the court of auditors that for the fourth consecutive year in its report on the company's 2014 financial statements, it has issued a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the operations carried out, on the basis that the administrative agreements signed with the national financing institutions (nfis) on project cost declarations do not provide for a practical procedure for ex post audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the discharge for the 2014 budget: for the eniac joint undertaking. the eniac joint undertaking (the 'joint undertaking') was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key nanoelectronics technologies in various applications. the joint undertaking has been granted financial autonomy since july 2010. the founding members of this joint undertaking are the union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden, the united kingdom and the european association for nanoelectronics activities. the european parliament acknowledges that the joint undertaking's financial statements for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014 and the results of operations and cash flows relating to the period ending on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. the parliament therefore endorses the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the ep resolution approving the eniac budget for the financial year 2014 as implemented. this company was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key nanoelectronics technologies in various applications. the joint undertaking has been granted financial autonomy since july 2010. the founding members of this joint undertaking are the union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden, the united kingdom and the european association for nanoelectronics activities. the european parliament acknowledges that the financial statements of the joint undertaking present the financial position and the cash flow results correctly in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. the parliament therefore endorses the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computer systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society. the joint undertaking's financial statements for the year 2014 are presented in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the commission, in all material respects. however, i agree with the court of auditors that in its report the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports on the costs of completed projects received from the national financing institutions (nfis).
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking (the 'joint undertaking') was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society. this joint undertaking started to operate autonomously in october 2009. the european parliament notes that the joint undertaking's financial statements for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present the financial position of the joint undertaking on 26 june 2014 and the results of operations and cash flows relating to the period ending on that date in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer, in all material respects. the parliament therefore endorses the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the ep's report approving the artemis budget for the financial year 2014 as implemented. this company was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years. its purpose is to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies related to embedded computer systems in various fields of application, thus contributing to the competitiveness of the union, the opening of new markets and the development of technologies of benefit to society. the maximum contribution from the union to the budget of the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years shall be eur 420 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh research framework programme. having regard to the audit reports and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, parliament notes that the financial position of the company for the reference period, the results of the operations concerned and the cash flow, in accordance with the provisions of the company's financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer, are presented in all material respects in a correct manner. the ep therefore endorses the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ the members of the european joint undertaking for the implementation of iter and the development of fusion energy are euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and other third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled fusion. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, has found that its financial statements for the year 2014 are presented in a fair and accurate manner, as required by the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (hereinafter referred to as the 'joint undertaking') was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the members of the joint undertaking shall be euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and other third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. this joint undertaking started to operate autonomously in march 2008. notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, has found that the joint undertaking's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, as required by the provisions of its financial rules;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the ep's report approving the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. this company was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. its members are euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and other third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. the court of auditors found in its report that the annual financial statements of this company correctly presented its financial position and the results of its financial operations and cash flow in all material respects, as required by the provisions of its financial rules. the ep therefore endorses the closure of the accounts of the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the iraqi military, supported by the global coalition against isis and the kurdistan regional government's peshmerga forces, as well as the popular mobilization forces, have launched an operation to liberate mosul, iraq's second largest city, and many towns and villages in the so-called mosul corridor, from isis control. that is why i support the operation that iraq has launched to liberate mosul from isis control and i believe that this operation will be a crucial part of the global effort to ensure the long-term defeat of isis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution by which the european parliament draws attention to the situation in northern iraq (mosul). it notes the warning of the un humanitarian coordinator on the lack of funding in view of the potential for an unprecedented humanitarian crisis that could result from the attack on mosul. parliament welcomed the european union's activities in iraq, in particular its previous humanitarian aid efforts and assistance in the clearance of improvised explosive devices, as this will be crucial to enable refugees and internally displaced persons to return home quickly. nevertheless, urges the eu and its member states to make greater efforts to stabilise the liberated territories. parliament also called on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law during and after hostilities and to respect the principles of proportionality, separation and precaution during conflict. furthermore, it particularly calls for all necessary precautions to be taken to ensure that children and their families are protected from bombing, to minimise the number of casualties and to protect civilian infrastructure, in particular schools and hospitals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the european union, the united nations and the entire international community should continue to support the iraqi government sustainably with humanitarian and military assistance during the ongoing liberation operations across several regions of iraq. therefore, the eur 50 million in humanitarian assistance provided by the european union to the region of mosul, which is facing an extraordinary, unprecedented humanitarian disaster, is an important step towards the stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the situation in northern iraq (mosul). on 17 october 2016, a military raid was launched to recapture the city of mosul from the forces of the terrorist group 'islamic state' (is). the city has been under the control of is since the summer of 2014, and an estimated one million civilians are imprisoned there. the city of mosul is the last major city occupied by is in iraq. the ep urges the iraqi government to facilitate the return of refugees and internally displaced persons and fully restore their fundamental rights, including property rights.
in writing. - i applaud the resolution. we europeans must pay due attention to the protection of human rights worldwide. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that mosul and all of northern iraq are still at the centre of the counter-terrorist operation. an operation that has gone well so far, and it's safe to say that soon this ancient city will be freed from the control of the dark forces. so i think that some of the wording is a little too strong and the support for the coalition effort is not strong enough.
in writing. ‒ according to reporters without borders, 89 journalists were arrested and 104 media outlets closed during the first six weeks of the state of emergency ‒ more than 2 300 journalists subsequently lost their jobs and at least 330 journalists had their accreditations revoked. i therefore agree that the turkish government must respect all the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and stop discriminating against citizens on the grounds of freedom of speech and other fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the situation of journalists in turkey. parliament called on the turkish authorities to release journalists and media workers who are detained without any credible evidence of criminal activity, and stressed that journalists should not be detained for the content of their journalistic work or for alleged links including in cases of indictment and stressed the need to ensure that remand detention remains an exceptional measure. parliament also expressed grave concern at the closure of over 150 media outlets and called for them to be reopened, allowed to be independent and for their dismissed staff to be reinstated in a proper manner. calls on the turkish authorities to stop abusing the provisions of the criminal code to appoint trustees to private media organisations and to stop administrative interference in the activities of independent news organisations, including cases involving editorial decisions, the dismissal of journalists and editors, pressure on and intimidation of critical news services and journalists; parliament called on the european external action service and the member states to continue to closely monitor the practical impact of the emergency and to ensure that all trials of journalists are monitored.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i strongly condemn the attempted military take-over of 15 july 2016 and the attempts to illegally and unconstitutionally change and undermine the legitimate turkish government and the freely elected grand national assembly as well as the mass arrests of journalists and the government’s campaign against media and journalists. thus, the eu calls on the authorities to urgently produce credible evidence to back the accusations that the arrested individuals have committed the criminal offences they are charged with and to proceed swiftly with the judicial proceedings, in full transparency and with adequate legal safeguards ensuring due process and a fair trial.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. according to the european federation of journalists and the turkish journalists association, after the coup attempt of 15 july 2016, the turkish police arrested at least 99 journalists and writers, most of whom have not yet been charged. the detained journalists have been denied access to a lawyer and are held in inhumane conditions, threatened and ill-treated. the media was heavily restricted and journalists were subjected to intense pressure even before the failed coup. according to the committee to protect journalists, the turkish authorities have closed the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, magazines, publishers and distribution companies since the coup attempt, leaving more than 2,300 journalists and media workers without jobs. the european parliament recognises the right and responsibility of the turkish government to respond to attempted coups d'état and to the real threat of terrorism. however, the turkish government cannot use the failed military coup as a pretext to further suppress the legitimate and peaceful opposition, nor take disproportionate and illegal actions and measures to prevent journalists and the media from peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ currently, 191 states are parties to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, including five states that are recognised as nuclear weapons states: the united states, the united kingdom, russia, france and china. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is a landmark international treaty aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons technology. i therefore agree that the nuclear non-proliferation goals must provide the basis for a global effort to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with nuclear safety and non-proliferation. the european parliament is deeply concerned about the deteriorating security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, as nuclear weapons could once again be used as active deterrents and acquired by state and non-state actors, and is deeply concerned about the lack of effective disarmament and non-proliferation measures. it therefore calls on all nuclear-weapon states to take concrete interim measures to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons detonating, including by reducing the use status of nuclear weapons and moving them from deployment sites to storage sites, reducing the role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines and rapidly reducing the stock of all types of nuclear weapons. parliament endorses the 2016 nuclear security summit, which recognised that the illicit trade in and use of nuclear materials poses a direct and significant threat to global security, and expects full traceability and physical protection of all weapons-grade materials to be pursued.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. a deep concern was expressed about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons. therefore i support the 2016 nuclear security summit, recognising that the unauthorised trade in and use of nuclear materials is an immediate and serious threat to global security, and it is important to achieve the complete tracking and physical securing of all weapons-grade materials.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution. the security environment in the world, including in the eu, is becoming increasingly volatile, unstable and unpredictable. we cannot help but notice the deterioration of relations between nuclear-armed nations, such as the russian federation and the united states, india and pakistan. we are following with concern the reports of north korea's nuclear tests. the deployment of nuclear-capable iskander missile systems in the kaliningrad area by russia in military exercises simulating the use of nuclear weapons against poland is also of particular concern. in view of these and many other aspects, the european parliament regrets that nuclear weapons are again playing an important role in the strategic plans of the states possessing them. the resolution calls for dialogue with all nuclear-weapon states and for a common agenda aimed at the gradual reduction of nuclear warhead stockpiles. parliament recommends the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, which would be a positive step towards a world without nuclear weapons and contribute to the creation of overall stability. parliament also called on the united nations general assembly to convene in 2017 a negotiating conference open to all states on a legally binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons, with a view to their ultimate abolition. it is expected that this will reinforce the non-proliferation and disarmament objectives and commitments set out in the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and help to facilitate global security.
in writing. ‒ every year, thousands of young europeans work on european voluntary service projects. they are given a variety of tasks, from helping children, the elderly or migrants, to providing free support for sport or environmental events, but the service celebrating its 20th anniversary does not guarantee the right legal status for volunteers. the european voluntary service should be open to people of all ages and its members should receive a certificate of experience to help volunteers in their search for paid employment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe. the european parliament recognises that voluntary activity is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility and that such activity contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal development, and that it is a crucial tool for social inclusion and cohesion, training, education and intercultural dialogue, and that it contributes significantly to the dissemination of european values. furthermore, stresses that its value as a strategic tool for promoting mutual understanding and intercultural contacts is also recognised in voluntary activities related to third countries. parliament stressed the importance of establishing a european voluntary service framework as a legal framework to define the status of voluntary service (with the corresponding rights and obligations), facilitate mobility and recognition of skills. it therefore calls on the member states that have yet to establish a legal environment for volunteers to use the recommendations set out in the european voluntary policy agenda and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers. calls on the commission to continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime, and to report regularly on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. in europe nearly 100 million citizens of all ages are volunteers, whose work contributes to the production of approximately 5% of its gdp. therefore, it is important that those member states that have not yet done so have to establish adequately funded national voluntary service schemes and to improve access to quality information on volunteering opportunities at national and local level, in particular through existing information networks and peer-to-peer information.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support the establishment of the eu volunteers service and the proposed guidelines for its activities. it is a great initiative and a great tool, which can not only help to tackle deep-seated social problems, but also to stimulate the challenges of increasing social sensitivity, employment growth and even the emergence of new businesses.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the gap between certain categories of young people has widened, with some of them losing their place in social and civic life. this situation is further complicated by the fact that some of them face the risk of social inaction, isolation, isolation and even violent radicalisation. while structured dialogue has been developing steadily since 2013 and is now receiving more attention in the youth strategy, i agree that we need to aim for a wider and more diverse range of young people to be encouraged to take an active role in local and global communities in the framework of cooperation in youth affairs in the period 2016-2018. we must also support the integration of young people into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. in addition, the gap between certain categories of young people has widened, with some of them losing their place in social and civic life. this situation is further complicated by the fact that some of them face the risk of social inaction, isolation, isolation and even violent radicalisation. youth policy is a competence of the member states, and the european union's role includes coordination, guidance and support. since there is no possibility of adopting legislation in this area at eu level, the open method of coordination has been used. in the period 2016-2018, we need to aim to encourage as many and as diverse groups of young people as possible to take an active role in local and global communities, as well as in civic and democratic life, within the framework of cooperation in youth affairs. equally, the cooperation framework for youth should help young people to find jobs and participate in society. eu funding under the erasmus+ programme shall be complemented by cooperation in the implementation of policies related to youth work, volunteering and civic participation. the integration of young people into the labour market and the development of their human capital will also be supported by other means, such as the european social fund, under the investment plan for europe and the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report highlights the continuing importance of the structured dialogue as a tool for youth participation and policy-making. cooperation on policies relating to youth work, volunteering and participation in civic life must be supplemented by eu funding under the erasmus+ programme. the integration of young people into the labour market and the development of their human capital will also be supported by other instruments such as the european social fund, the investment plan for europe and the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with youth employment and social issues. the high level of youth unemployment in the eu remains a concern and it is therefore necessary to strengthen eu social action and the implementation of european youth strategies and to ensure that youth employment and social problems are effectively addressed. i also believe that the eu youth strategy should focus more on entrepreneurship, as it is one of the main drivers of economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in full support of the eu youth strategy. investing in the future in young people is perhaps the most justified, and i therefore consider it the european union's duty to do everything possible to ensure that europe's young people have the best possible conditions for growth and development. at the same time, i would like to make a small comment on the fact that the strategy has lost a more prominent spot on the question of the new member states. many of them still have very specific youth policy problems that could be addressed with targeted eu assistance.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted for the report because supporting young people and strengthening the european union's youth strategy must be our priority for the future. the evaluation of the existing activities for 2013-2015 can serve as a model for the changes that the european institutions are preparing for the current strategy. while youth policy is a matter for the member states, the european union has been and should remain committed to strict coordination of activities in this sector and to increasing its assistance through the european funds. what we need to focus on is getting more involved in fighting youth unemployment, because the number of unemployed young people, unfortunately, is as high as 14 million. and that should be changed.
in writing. ‒ agriculture covers most of europe's territory, but is currently only a small part of the working population in rural areas. moreover, the majority of cap direct payments go to the richest farms and in 2014 only 13% of beneficiaries received 74% of cap direct payments. i think that this is not helping to create jobs in agriculture and small farms need more labour, because 53% of farm workers are working on farms that are classified as small economically. i therefore support the need to better distribute cap payments to small farmers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines how the implementation of the common agricultural policy (cap) can improve job creation in rural areas. the european parliament underlines the importance of the agricultural and agri-products sector for social and territorial cohesion, given its role in sustainable economic growth, the creation of quality jobs and the preservation of rural communities. stresses also the need to preserve the cap budget and to strengthen its social and economic role, with particular attention to micro and small farms and taking into account the specificities of the regions; it is also essential that the effective implementation of the cap contributes to social inclusion in rural areas, ensuring decent living and working conditions and good prospects for the future. parliament stresses the importance of territorial cohesion in the eu and that it should be implemented through economic development policies that respond to the challenges facing rural areas. notes, moreover, the strong link between rural systems, small communities and municipalities, and therefore calls for better synergies between cohesion policy instruments and the cap; parliament called on the member states to encourage young farmers to participate in vocational training under the erasmus+ programme, in particular the part devoted to practical training, in order to encourage them to acquire new technical and linguistic skills abroad.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report. the report does not provide an in—depth analysis on the situation in member states and how well the potential of cap has been already used in the area of job creation. also, the member states should advertise better the potential of the second pillar of the cap for the diversification of activities in rural areas (e.g. agro-tourism, production of renewable energy).
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on 'how the implementation of the common agricultural policy (cap) can improve job creation in rural areas'. the report contains a number of provisions that criticise the eu's negotiations on free trade agreements (ttip, ceta, mercosur). i believe that free trade agreements can open up particularly large and profitable markets in the united states, canada and south america for the products of our farmers.
in writing. ‒ europe's rural areas are in crisis. a crisis that is manifested not only in fluctuating prices, in farmers' incomes that do not cover the costs, in the abuse of intermediaries, but also in the rapidly decreasing number of people living in rural areas and working in agriculture. between 2000 and 2012, almost 5 million jobs in european agriculture disappeared. the small farms are being replaced by 'mega-farms'. is this the kind of european agriculture we want? as a shadow rapporteur, i can say that this report is very well written. it provides a vision of what the european countryside needs from the current cap reform and the new cap. i can only emphasise further that we must aim for a more rural and quality food, clean environment oriented european cap. we must also seek a level playing field for farmers, in particular through the harmonisation of direct payments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for mr andriessen's report. i agree that the cap should facilitate job creation in rural areas. the economic development of these areas needs to be analysed and understood in relation to their social and demographic development. this requires greater support for families living in rural areas and the search for new solutions in the labour market, for example through greater promotion of services in the agricultural sector. the cap is one of the main instruments that should be used to this end in order to give european agriculture the chance to emerge from the unprecedented crisis in which it is currently found.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol. this agreement provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. this means that information could be exchanged in the areas of specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, as well as information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods. the agreement provides for participation in training activities, consultation and assistance in specific criminal investigations. the agreement is of particular importance in view of ukraine's status as a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership programme, and in particular the security and the fight against crime issues that are fundamental and necessary to achieve the key objectives of the partnership. the agreement can also have a positive impact on closer cooperation between eu and ukrainian citizens in other areas, such as freedom of movement. i welcome the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine as it would help to strengthen the fight against organised crime and facilitate closer international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other related criminal law. i am convinced that closer cooperation between the eu and ukraine is mutually beneficial and necessary.
in writing. ‒ the current conflict situation in ukraine has also spilled over into other areas of concern both for ukraine and other adjacent european countries. according to europol itself, ukraine is playing a much larger role than before in the issues of organised crime, drug trafficking, and human smuggling. which is why the exchange of valuable information between the triad of the eu, the member states, and ukraine will allow a higher efficiency combat against these problems. this agreement would open the door not only to the exchange of information but also the possibilities of training and crime preventing activities to start battling the issues before they even spawn. the report also underlines the importance of further implementing all the previous security agreements established between the eu and ukraine in order to enhance international cooperation on such matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol. the purpose of this proposal is to approve the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. according to europol, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug-related and economic crime, trafficking in human beings and smuggling, as well as mobile organised crime groups. i therefore support the idea that the exchange of information would enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol, the european police office (europol). such agreements may involve the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall include the exchange of personal data. this agreement between europol and ukraine on operational and strategic cooperation allows for the exchange of information, including personal data. the agreement also allows for the exchange of information in the areas of specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, as well as participation in training activities, consultancy and assistance in specific criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the exchange of information between europol and the ukrainian law enforcement authorities would allow the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively. the agreement provides for the exchange of information, training and crime prevention activities.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. in particular, there is a need to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their cooperation with each other in the field of organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. given that ukraine is a key partner of the eu in the eastern partnership and in order to combat and strengthen the fight against organised crime more effectively, it is necessary to promote closer operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol through the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. it should be noted that this cooperation agreement also covers the exchange of personal data. it should be noted that this agreement will make it possible to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively. it will also enhance international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other related criminal law, as well as the effectiveness of prevention and combating trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ judicial cooperation with third countries is an essential part of the practical eu external relations agenda. it is by expanding such cooperation that we promote the development of good governance principles and ensure that criminals and suspects cannot escape justice. i am convinced that this agreement with ukraine - our partner which has suffered greatly for its european aspirations - will be an important step in promoting the expansion of the area of good governance east of the european union's borders. at the same time, i would even like to express my surprise and comment to the commission as to why such agreements were not concluded much earlier.
‒ the prosecutor general of the court of appeal of versailles has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament. the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh relates to the alleged intention to incite racial, ethnic or religious discrimination against an unnamed person in public by means of words, writings, images or electronic means of communication to the public. since the charges are clearly not related to the duties of mr jean-françois jalcho as a member of the european parliament, they decide to waive the immunity of mr jean-françois jalcho.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the decision of parliament to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalcho from france. this waiver of immunity relates to the pre-trial investigation initiated against jean-françois jalkh at the district court of nanterre following the lodging of a complaint by the association 'maisons des potes' 'maison de l'égalité' with a civil claim for public incitement to racial or religious discrimination. the complaint refers to the publication of a brochure 'memorial of the national front member elected to the municipal council' on 19 september 2013 which appeared on the official website of the national front federation on 30 november 2013 and which contained a call for the future national front members of the city council to recommend, from the first meeting of the new members of the city council, the defence of the 'national priority' of social housing. jean-françois jalkh was at that time director of publications of the front national and director of publications of all websites of the federation. jean-françois jalkh was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the offence and the allegations are clearly not related to jean-françois jalkh's duties as a member of the european parliament, but are in fact related only to activities of a national or regional nature, as the words were addressed to candidates for city council members who intended to participate in the local elections of 23-24 march 2014.
in writing. - i support the decision to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalcho. the french law enforcement authorities must be given the opportunity to question the member of parliament and to establish all the circumstances surrounding the allegations of incitement to racial and religious discrimination.
in writing. ‒ any accusation by the law enforcement authorities against a member of the european parliament must be taken seriously. we cannot allow the mandate of a member of the european parliament to become an opportunity to evade responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament. jean-françois jalkh was charged by the office of national intelligence, which fights anti-semitism. moreover, since jean-françois jalkh was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the offence, the charges clearly have nothing to do with his duties as a member of the european parliament. i therefore support the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalcho.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the decision of parliament to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalcho from france. this waiver of immunity relates to the pre-trial investigation initiated against jean-françois jalkh in the paris regional court following the receipt of a complaint by the national bureau of vigilance against antisemitism (bnvca) with a civil claim for public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence. the complaint states that in an interview published on the website frontnational.com and later on the blog jeanmarielepen.com on 6 june 2014, jean-marie le pen, in response to a participant mentioning the name of the singer patrick bruel and his words that he would not sing in cities where a representative of the national front would be elected mayor, said: "it doesn't surprise me. listen, we'll turn the oven on another time. at the time, jean-françois jalkh was the editorial director of the official website of the front national. jean-françois jalkh was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the offence and the allegations clearly have nothing to do with his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i support the decision to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalcho. the french law enforcement authorities must be given the opportunity to question the member of parliament and to establish all the circumstances surrounding the allegations of incitement to racial and religious discrimination.
in writing. ‒ any accusation by the law enforcement authorities against a member of the european parliament must be taken seriously. we cannot allow the mandate of a member of the european parliament to become an opportunity to evade responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cod stocks and the multiannual plan for the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to cover the whole of the union, including the mediterranean, the black sea and the black sea. i supported this report, recognising that a balance must be struck between meeting the needs of the fishing industry and consumers and safeguarding cod stocks and promoting sustainable fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cod stocks and the multiannual plan for the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the current situation is that controls and penalties for infringements vary widely across the eu, and the same infringement can be punished by administrative fines or criminal sanctions. i therefore support the need to harmonise controls on fishing activities and penalties for infringements. a uniform training programme for inspectors should also be established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks and the fishing opportunities available for those stocks. this regulation has been the subject of an interinstitutional dispute before the court of justice since 2013 as the council exceeded its powers by not taking into account the commission's 2012 proposal, which was endorsed by the european parliament. in this report, parliament has given its consent to a text of the regulation which is in line with european union law and the position of all the institutions within their respective powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this proposal aims to improve and clarify the provisions of the regulation so that they are consistent with european union law and the position of all the institutions within their mandate.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the recommendation. this regulation implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. all in all, it is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks. it is therefore necessary to apply common rules on the annual fishing opportunities for this stock expressed in terms of total allowable catches and maximum allowable fishing effort. it is essential that the plan is kept up to date on the basis of the most reliable scientific advice. in addition, the principle of responsibility must be applied to fisheries management without any exceptions. it is necessary to ensure that living marine biological resources are used in such a way as to restore and maintain populations of harvested species above levels which can produce the maximum sustainable yield. the implementation of the measures envisaged will ensure the conservation, sustainable exploitation and sustainable fisheries of cod stocks.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual cod fisheries plan is an important document defining the management objectives for this important resource and ecosystem component. the current cod management plan is not only an important document but also a victory for the european parliament, which has succeeded in limiting the council's very high ambitions in 2012-2014 and thus contributing to halting the depletion of cod stocks. i have endorsed the document as being in line with the long-term objectives of sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the report on the long-term cod fisheries plan recommended by diane dodds, member of the european parliament. rational cod fishing planning will undoubtedly help to protect this species from extinction in the baltic sea. it is worth noting that cod fishing is one of the main and most important fisheries in the baltic sea and that a balance between the protection of this species and fishing restrictions must be considered in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for the report on access to anti-money laundering information by tax authorities. i support the european commission's aim of achieving fairer, more efficient taxation in the european union, based on greater tax transparency. the importance of the eu's tax transparency agenda is underlined by recent media reports of large-scale money laundering in the gst zones. the above information shows that there are still areas where additional measures are needed to strengthen the eu and international transparency framework. the tax authorities should be able to obtain more easily information on the beneficial owners of intermediary structures, as well as other information necessary for the thorough examination of customers, in order to successfully detect cases of tax evasion. i believe that this initiative will contribute to a more effective fight against money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to information by tax authorities on anti-money laundering. the 'swissleaks', 'luxleaks', 'panama papers' and 'bahamas leaks' scandals have raised serious doubts about the eu's ability to fight tax evasion and money laundering. we also increasingly face giant multinational corporations that use 'privileges' and evade taxes. reforms in this area are therefore necessary to bring about greater transparency not only at eu level but also at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu on access to information in combating money laundering. the european commission is pursuing an ambitious agenda to combat tax evasion and avoidance in order to ensure fairer and more efficient taxation in the european union. one of the key points on this agenda is greater tax transparency. in the action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing adopted on 2 february 2016, the commission committed itself to present a proposal for amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive in the first half of 2016 with the aim of further strengthening the rules on combating terrorist financing.
in writing. - i voted yes. the tax authorities should be given easier access to the information needed to detect cases of tax evasion. i hope that this will help the authorities to be more effective in preventing tax evasion and increase tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ the i support the draft directive submitted. the fight against tax evasion and avoidance must be made more effective and efficient. tax evasion and avoidance is of a cross-border nature and national action alone is not sufficient. in order to combat aggressive tax practices and to limit the potential for large-scale concealment of funds, it is necessary to ensure that tax authorities have adequate access to anti-money laundering information. the implementation of the measures envisaged will enable the tax authorities to perform their duties properly. it is worth noting that tax evasion and avoidance cost national budgets billions of dollars in lost revenue every year and distort competition. it is therefore necessary to coordinate the fight against tax abuse at both eu and international levels and to further enhance administrative cooperation between tax administrations.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and money laundering is a crucial task for the modern state. this is particularly true in a globalised world, where various national and quasi-national arrangements offer a wide range of tax haven services. i therefore wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution tabled. at the same time, i would like to stress that the eu and the member states must make every effort to ensure that the exchange of tax data between states does not become a tool for human rights violations or commercial espionage.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that tackling money laundering can strengthen the financial systems of eu countries. i also think it's a big step in the fight against organized crime. it is worth noting that tax evasion and money laundering are similar crimes and i agree that the authorities fighting these crimes should interact more closely. in the face of increasing crossborder crime, there is a need for increased cooperation between eu authorities to ensure that information reaches the recipient quickly and in an organised manner, which helps to prevent crime.
in writing. to effectively monitor the application of the due diligence procedures by financial institutions as laid down in directive 2011/16/eu, tax authorities need access to anti-money laundering information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report 2015 of the european central bank. the euro area is still characterised by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, including a current account deficit. in addition, euro area countries are characterised by low productivity growth, driven by a lack of investment, failure to implement structural reforms and weak domestic demand. i agree with the ecb president, mr draghi, that monetary policy alone cannot boost aggregate demand growth and that it must be complemented at member state level by sound fiscal policies and broad and socially balanced structural reform programmes. the demographic situation in europe should also be fully taken into account in the implementation of socially balanced structural economic and labour market reforms and a more balanced demographic policy should be promoted. it is also important that the ecb carefully assess the risk of future asset and housing price bubbles arising from the ecb's ultra-low (negative) interest rate policy, given the significant increase in borrowing and the disproportionate rise in property prices, especially in some large cities. i agree with the position that national economic policies should be coordinated, particularly in the euro area, in order to achieve economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report 2015 of the european central bank. the ecb's 2015 annual report notes that the euro area is still characterised by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances. the euro area also faces very low productivity growth, driven by a lack of investment and high levels of government debt. in view of these problems in the euro area, i therefore agree that sound fiscal policies and socially balanced and productivity-oriented structural reforms are the only way to achieve a sustainable economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the way parliament has assessed the european central bank's annual report for 2015. in its report, parliament stressed that the euro area was still characterised by high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, including current account imbalances, and by very low productivity growth, driven by investment shortfalls, the failure to implement structural reforms and weak domestic demand. parliament also noted that the high level of government debt, in particular the high number of non-performing loans and the still undercapitalised banking sector in some member states were still fragmenting the euro area financial market, thus reducing the ability to help the most vulnerable economies. finally, parliament recalled the federal nature of the ecb, which does not provide for the possibility for member states to veto decisions, thus allowing the ecb to take decisive action to overcome the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2015. i appreciate the efforts and policies of this institution to ensure the financial stability of the euro area. but we must not forget the other member states, business and all citizens about further resolution of the big issues: bank profitability, lending to smes, reducing the risk of shadow banking, providing liquidity to greece, the risk of asset and housing price bubbles, etc. this concern is also reflected in the ep resolution, and i hope that the european central bank will succeed in finding the best balanced financial policy solutions that will contribute to european economic growth and financial stability.
in writing. ‒ attention should be drawn to the fact that there are too few positive factors that could stimulate the economic recovery, as the european central bank's policy is still focused on savings. the ecb's emergency measures were ineffective and had adverse consequences. it should be noted that the single currency has not affected the financial stability of the euro area. the euro area is still characterised by high unemployment and excessively low inflation. the euro has also led to balance of payments imbalances and excessive surpluses in some countries, but the commission has not yet taken any action. in this context, i believe it would be appropriate to develop an alternative plan for an orderly and controlled withdrawal from monetary union, and in the meantime to provide for a non-participation procedure for any member state wishing to withdraw from monetary union.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank is a fairly uncontroversial document. however, it needs to be corrected by proposals such as an assessment of the ecb's performance in tackling the crisis and safeguarding the stability of the euro, as well as a call for greater attention to the eventual establishment of a banking union or an assessment of the activities of commercial banks that receive loans on very favourable terms and the size of the remaining illiquid assets of banks. i would also like to stress that the amendments tabled by my colleagues, which criticise the euro as a factor holding back economic recovery, are more likely to be dictated by populism than by a desire to look deeper into the problem. it would be good if such provisions did not appear in the final document.
in writing. i agree that a well-functioning, diversified and integrated capital market could support the transmission mechanisms of the single monetary policy. addressing the problem of non-performing loans in the most affected national banking sectors is particularly important in order to restore a smooth monetary policy transmission throughout the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the green paper on retail financial services. this initiative was timely given the need to be proactive at all stages of policy-making in order to respond effectively and appropriately to developments in this innovative market. if we want new legislation to work well in a rapidly changing market, we need to be active here and now. the green paper is necessary because the rapid digitisation of financial markets is opening up new opportunities. digitalisation, if properly leveraged, could provide the impetus needed to start removing the remaining cross-border barriers to retail financial services. the opportunity now exists to link financial service providers established throughout europe with european consumers. this rare opportunity to create a single market should not be missed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services. the eu retail financial services market is still underdeveloped and highly fragmented, for example with a low level of cross-border transactions, and effective action is needed to unlock the full potential of the single market and to foster innovation for the benefit of end-users. in this context, i support the commission's initiative to draw up a green paper on retail financial services.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the commission's green paper on retail financial services. the commission's green paper on retail financial services, the definition of which includes insurance, has been welcomed by parliament and has so far generated lively and productive debate. parliament believes that digitalisation will continue to open up new opportunities for competition, cross-border activities and innovation for consumers, investors, smes and other businesses. however, it stresses that digitisation is not enough to create a viable european market for retail financial services. parliament believes that many obstacles - such as the diversity of tax, social, legal, contractual, health and consumer protection regimes, as well as linguistic and cultural differences - cannot be overcome by digitisation alone.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's position on the green paper on retail financial services. i hope that this set of proposals will bring real added value to consumers, ensuring competition, greater choice, greater access to financial services and products and lower prices.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. retail financial services are very important in the daily lives of eu citizens. therefore, more efforts are needed to develop the retail financial services market and to address the challenges faced by consumers and industry in this area. it is essential that the proposed initiatives are in line with the wider international efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. a common taxpayer identification number should therefore be applied throughout the eu. however, i do not believe that the introduction of a single currency in all member states would increase the efficiency and coherence of the single market for retail financial services. on the contrary, a single currency would have a very negative impact on consumers and the market as a whole. the measures provided for in the green paper on retail financial services must deliver tangible benefits to eu consumers. consumers must be adequately protected and service providers must be financially viable and reliable.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of retail financial services is a crucial area of banking activity, as this issue is directly linked to the services that each consumer receives. it is particularly important to regulate the relationship between retail financial service providers and consumers, as retail financial service providers tend to have more negotiating power and often abuse it in relation to consumers. the proposal under consideration is fairly balanced. as far as i know, it has taken account of our proposals to strengthen consumer protection. it also contains an important amendment that we are proposing, which calls for such investments to be encouraged to invest more in green priorities, to use the methodologies for assessing the 'impact' of investments.
in writing. i welcome the commission's commitment to help promote sustainable and green investment finance and urge the commission, on the basis of the consultations that have taken place and in close cooperation with the european parliament, to take a more active role, through the capital markets union, in supporting the growing market for sustainable and responsible investment, in promoting sustainable investment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to bring together the defence efforts of the eu member states in order to be able to respond more robustly and more quickly to emerging threats. i support the call for the european council to initiate the creation of a european defence union working alongside nato and to provide additional funding for its implementation. i also agree that eu member states should spend at least 2% of their gdp on defence and strengthen military cooperation between eu countries by setting up an eu military operations headquarters and multilateral forces. cooperation and integration between the societies of the eu member states, nato and its constituent countries is particularly relevant in the context of today's challenges such as cybersecurity. i am convinced that european political will and determination and closer military cooperation between eu countries and nato will make a significant contribution to the more successful management of hybrid and conventional threats and to the resilience of eu citizens, while enhancing the security of all of us.
in writing. ‒ recent years have shown a dramatic shift in the environment of security throughout the european union and it has not been a shift for the better. these changes and current events call for a solution that would strengthen the eu’s defence policy and work hand in hand with nato to secure europe. this report does just that, but it clearly differentiates between the differences of simply pumping more money into european defence and actually using the funds created for implementation. similarly to the agreements of nato, eu member states should look to provide 2% of their gdp for eu security. this report calls for greater interlocking and cooperation between the eu member states; only through these methods will we be able to create a european defence union that successfully compliments nato in providing a safer present and future for europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union. the security situation in europe and in neighbouring countries has deteriorated significantly in recent years, creating complex and unprecedented challenges that no country or organisation can tackle alone. moreover, europe is more than ever at risk from terrorism on its own territory. i therefore agree that the european defence union must be built on the basis of a comprehensively revised common security and defence policy, based on the principle of a strong collective defence, effective financing and operational coordination with nato.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the european defence union. the security situation in europe and in neighbouring countries has deteriorated significantly in recent years, creating complex and unprecedented challenges that no country or organisation can address alone. europe is more threatened by terrorism on its soil than ever before, and terrorism and ongoing violence in north africa and the middle east continue to spread. solidarity and resilience therefore require the eu to be united, to act consistently together, and to do so with its allies, partners and third countries. parliament recalled that, in order to ensure long-term security, europe must demonstrate political will and determination, backed up by a range of relevant policy instruments, including strong and modern military capabilities. it therefore called on the european council to lead the gradual development of the union's common defence policy and to provide additional financial resources to ensure its implementation with a view to its establishment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's report. in view of the complex geopolitical situation, we must make every effort to ensure our security and to strengthen cooperation and mutual understanding between european member states in this area. however, i believe that the european initiative in the field of defence should not duplicate the functions performed by nato structures.
in writing. ‒ the i do not support the proposals to create a european defence union as soon as possible, to establish a joint eu military operations command and a multilateral force. the objective of each member state should be not only to strengthen the armed forces but also to pursue a much wider political and diplomatic dialogue. first, the measures envisaged in the report reflect a lack of confidence in nato. we are also reaffirming this mistrust in the pursuit of multilateral forces, while at the same time denying the fundamental principles of the autonomy of the member states. i do not support the proposal to use eu funds to develop a common defence policy. each member state should be encouraged to make the appropriate efforts and demonstrate its determination to protect its borders and its citizens. new arms races or new military deals are by no means a way out of the ever-growing tensions. they can only be catalysts for greater tensions. i think it is inappropriate to have a european defence semester to assess the progress of member states in defence in relation to fiscal efforts, to prepare an eu white paper on defence and to give a huge role to the european defence agency.
in writing. ‒ the i am sceptical about the proposal for a european defence union. firstly, because it is seen as an alternative to nato. unfortunately, any deeper analysis will show that we have no alternative to nato and the transatlantic partnership. neither technological nor military. i would remind you that a similar initiative was a failure more than 60 years ago. instead of creating new and dubious products, i would suggest that we invest more in strengthening our existing transatlantic ties and in building up our military capabilities. to do exactly what my country is doing now.
in writing. i believe that more active european cooperation in defence would lead to greater efficiency, unity, effectiveness, as well as increase the eu's defence assets and capabilities and could have a positive impact on the defence research and industrial aspects. i stress that only through this enhanced cooperation, which should gradually develop into a genuine european defence union, will the eu and its member states be able to acquire the technological and industrial capabilities needed to respond quickly, autonomously and effectively and to counter today's threats in a targeted and effective manner.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the use of water transport for passengers. today, many people in europe travel to work by road, creating bottlenecks, congestion and delays on european city routes. better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services. there are many places in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be much cheaper, simpler and faster, while protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens. more than 400 million people use eu ports every year, and 120 million passengers are transported to ports in the same member state. and while water transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of travel, there is still room for improving shipping's environmental performance and energy efficiency. this requires the use of research and innovative technologies such as solar and wind power, onshore electricity and alternative fuels, while respecting the principle of technological neutrality. i agree that the development of passenger water transport requires improving the availability and use of eu funding, such as cohesion, structural, regional, interreg, horizon 2020, eitp and ten-t funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the exploitation of the potential of passenger water transport. europe's geographical location, with its abundance of rivers, waterways, canals, long coastlines and islands, offers a wide range of opportunities for passengers to travel by water. in addition, european city routes are clogged, congested and delayed. i therefore support the view that better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by parliament on the exploitation of the potential of passenger water transport. passenger water transport, including sea ferries, inland waterways ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, underpinned by policies addressing safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, and quality of service, passenger rights and accessibility without barriers. many people in europe travel to work by road, creating bottlenecks, congestion and delays on european city routes. better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services. europe's geographical location, with its many rivers, waterways, canals, long coastlines and islands, offers a wide range of opportunities for passenger water transport. there are many places in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be much safer, simpler and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the regions while protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's report on the exploitation of the potential of passenger water transport. the communication discusses important measures to ensure competitiveness, service safety, quality and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. the potential of passenger water transport needs to be exploited properly and efficiently to make this sector cheaper, cleaner and greener. in particular, special attention should be paid to the inland waterways of eastern europe. it is necessary to improve their quality and infrastructure, increase their competitiveness and link them to the western european inland waterway system in order to create a common passenger waterway transport area. it should be noted that shipping is an environmentally friendly mode of transport. therefore, more efforts are needed to improve environmental sustainability in order to move towards less polluting and energy efficient ships. sustainable, attractive and economically competitive solutions are needed. improving safety, quality and accessibility of services particular attention shall be paid to baltic sea standards, fuel quality and fuel-efficient engines. increased efforts and progress in research and innovation are needed, with particular attention to the practical application of renewable, solar and wind energy in the passenger water transport sector.
in writing. ‒ waterborne passenger transport can become a more sustainable alternative to road transport, which has reached its limits in many cities. i warmly welcome the idea of promoting the development of this transport and the document submitted for consideration.
in writing. welcomes the new commission proposals for legislative acts to simplify and improve the common safety rules for passenger ships operating in eu waters, in order to increase safety and competition by ensuring that the rules are clearer and simpler and adapted to legal and technological developments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on improving the efficiency of development cooperation. the european union and its member states will continue to work together to ensure that the union's policies and actions are consistent with the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations convention on the law of the sea. this is an important opportunity to assess the implementation of global aid and development effectiveness commitments. the eu has taken important steps to increase aid transparency, improve overall programming, address conflict and vulnerability, and evaluate results. progress in co-programming is to be acknowledged, with more than half of the partner countries receiving eu development assistance now implementing it. however, further efforts are still needed to ensure effective development assistance coordination, with clear and enforceable rules on issues such as democratic accountability of the parties, alignment with national strategies and systems, predictability of funding and mutual accountability. we would like to hear from the european commission what has been done in this area. it is also important that more needs to be done at both eu and global level to increase the effectiveness of aid and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. the implementation of the aid effectiveness principles has made a clear contribution to progress towards the mdgs in many countries, but progress remains uneven and not all the principles have been fully implemented by development actors in all countries. the union's contribution to the development of the union's external borders and the union's external relations is limited to the union's external borders and external borders, and is limited to the union's external borders and external borders. we must use all instruments of development policy to eradicate poverty and promote the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the one in which parliament spoke about strengthening the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu is committed to improving aid and development effectiveness in the implementation of development cooperation in the long term. in its previous term, the european parliament took the view that aid effectiveness, now part of the broader concept of 'development effectiveness', needed to be improved and contributed to the preparations for the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness. after five years, it is important to assess the implementation of global aid and development effectiveness commitments. it is also a good opportunity to analyse how aid and development effectiveness could contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the implementation of the addis ababa development finance agenda. in the light of the new 2030 agenda and the need to do more at a lower cost, more effective aid delivery and development cooperation remain of paramount importance in order to reduce poverty, strengthen national resilience and empower local communities.
in writing. - i voted for this ep report. improving the effectiveness of development cooperation aid is essential. as the eu is the largest donor of development aid, we need to ensure that funding mechanisms are transparent at all stages of projects and aid flows, contribute to poverty reduction and empower local communities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report. in order to achieve the objectives set, all stakeholders must properly comply with their commitments and increase their accountability to the budget of the support. particular attention shall be paid to the global partnership for effective development cooperation and its benefits. the effective use of all development policy instruments is essential to eradicate poverty and achieve the sustainable development goals. in particular, the delivery of support should be accelerated and an effective plan adopted to achieve the objectives of the commitments in a transparent, predictable and accountable manner. the effective implementation of the development performance agenda requires the decoupling of development aid not only at eu level but also at global level. in addition, the effectiveness of development finance should be assessed on the basis of its specific performance and its contribution to development policy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ development cooperation is not only an important instrument for aid to developing countries, but also an important instrument for the eu's external relations. it is very good that we pay enough attention to aid to third countries. what is not so good is that the european commission avoids a wider application of the conditionality mechanism in this area to tie eu support firmly to the progress of the beneficiary state in building good governance, strengthening the protection of human rights. however, i support this resolution as a good tool to look for ways of using eu development aid more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr cristian dan predo because the european union, the world's largest donor of development aid, has a special responsibility to tailor and deliver aid effectively. i agree with the idea that we need to look for innovative approaches to sustainable development around the world. i agree that the most effective aid delivery must be based on four principles: a stronger focus on aid performance to reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries, transparency and shared responsibility, accountability for development priorities and support for donor societies in countries.
in writing. i welcome the progress made and recommend that the commission continue its efforts to ensure that all stakeholders have access to information on the transparency of development cooperation programming, financing mechanisms, projects and aid flows, in particular in the light of the international aid transparency initiative.
madam president, many believe that russia has become involved in syria in order to divert attention away from the conflict in ukraine. ukraine today represents the failure of the kremlin’s imperial policy, because this country has become one of the most hostile to the russian state. russia is experiencing international isolation and sanctions, and all this raises serious political and economic problems inside the country. the russian people did not need another war in distant syria. moreover, the syrian conflict has not weakened western attention to ukraine. it seems that, by bombing civilians in syria, putin is trying to prove that russia is more than a regional power, as president obama called it. the kremlin has achieved this goal, at least temporarily, as the syrian conflict can no longer be solved without moscow’s participation. the kremlin becoming a serious player in syria and the whole middle east has its price. one should not forget that the kremlin considers the united states of america as its most important rival in the world. never, even in the cold war years, has the world been so close to uncontrolled serious military conflict as now, so finding a ceasefire in syria is of crucial importance.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, 6 000 eu citizens recruited by, and fighting for, daesh means that targeted propaganda focused on a particular individual proves more than successful. equally successful, the kremlin’s propaganda operates in a different way: it tries to reach out to as many people as possible, with as many different stories. it is in the kremlin’s playbook to deconstruct the truth and to spread the lies around widely – an approach first tested by the kremlin on its own people, citizens of russia. it was proven back in soviet times that the moment the tv set wins over the fridge the regime can start feeling quite secure. to build on that further, however, it has to start gaining minds outside. the eu, the west, and our values have been chosen as a strategic target. suddenly, europeans who are used to information being free and based on facts become consumers of fake information and lies. the challenge is how to explain to europeans that stories such as those of the crucified boy in ukraine or the girl named lisa kidnapped and raped in germany have nothing to do with reality. i am more than convinced that setting up the east stratcom task force within the european external action service was the right and timely response to those massive campaigns of anti-eu propaganda. i must highly commend the east stratcom task force team: it is extremely professional and is doing a great job. however, as we initiate a proposal to increase the budget allocation to that team, i would ask the high representative’s office to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to guarantee that the east stratcom task force delivers more in operational costs than is already covered in the 2017 budget.
madam president, tonight we are discussing how vulnerable democracies are – or could be – in the age of networks and networking, freedom of speech and the right to information. this is a timely and extremely important report, ms fotyga; thank you very much. according to many experts, the baltic states are expected to be the next hotspot for russian information warfare. we, in the baltics, have a substantial russian media presence that has long targeted russian-speaking audiences with false narratives and propaganda. simultaneously, this propaganda tends to stoke anxiety among lithuanian audiences over the country’s perceived security and economic weaknesses. finally, the work of stratcom is of high value, and cooperation among member states’ intelligence services should be enhanced, though it should not mean that the autonomy of national intelligence services is lost.
in writing. sign languages are official languages of the states and must therefore be accorded the same rights. the problem of access to information for all is not being addressed enough, both in the member states and in the institutions of the european union, and this needs to change. linguistic diversity needs to be not only tolerated but also nurtured, and sign languages should be included in the promotion of multilingualism in the member states. in some areas, the development and use of language technologies could help to reduce the exclusion of people with hearing disabilities and increase their access to information. it is necessary to ensure that the european commission programmes such as horizon 2020 and at national level pay sufficient attention to the development of language technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2018 calendar of plenary sessions of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this document because it approves the 2018 calendar of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the dates of ep meetings are indicated in the calendar of plenary sessions. i voted yes.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed document.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the envisaged agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) with the provisions of the treaties. i very much regret that some members of the european parliament are trying to undermine the importance of the epc to the eu and canada and are seeking to create as many obstacles as possible to the entry into force of this agreement. i firmly believe that the echr is one of the best and most useful international agreements the eu has ever concluded. the eip will undoubtedly benefit eu citizens, and contribute to economic growth and business development in the eu member states and, at the same time, in canada.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution requesting the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the provisions of the treaties of the agreement envisaged between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). this comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada is crucial to boosting trade and strengthening economic relations, which will contribute to job creation and growth. i believe that this agreement must be implemented as soon as possible and that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution, which makes it difficult to implement the epc agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) with the provisions of the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that ceta will open up many opportunities for lithuanian businesses, and the opening up of new markets is particularly important after russia's politically motivated decision to severely restrict the import of food products from lithuania and other european countries. i believe that the proposal by the group of meps to refer the matter to the court of justice to assess the compatibility of ceta with the provisions of the eu treaties is nothing less than an attempt to prevent the signature of this treaty. the court's decision would delay the entry into force of ceta for at least one and a half years, and i therefore did not support such a proposal.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. i consider it appropriate to refer the question of the compatibility of the envisaged agreement between canada and the european union with the provisions of the eu treaties to the court of justice. it should be noted that this convergence represents the legitimisation of the principles of globalisation in european trade. its provisions are not in the interests of the people of europe. in particular, the agreement does not provide for sufficient safeguards not only to create new jobs but also to preserve existing ones in europe. in addition, the cartel is significantly relaxed in respect of the safety requirements for imported food and agricultural products. the trade partners are given much more rights and opportunities to resolve disputes in a more favourable legal environment. finally, the potential damage to european industry and the economy from such an agreement has not been fully assessed.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that we are rushing too much to sign agreements such as ceta and ttip. while i welcome the development of transatlantic trade, i am particularly concerned about the secrecy involved. what trade secrets can the eu keep from its citizens? and why should canada, a democratic country, hide the relevant provisions from its citizens. after all, once the treaty enters into force, these provisions will become public. the court's decision, while bringing some clarity to this debate, is essentially a step aside. first, we need to address the issues of publicity and transparency of the contracts themselves.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere in certain member states and amending directive 2003/35/ec. it should be noted that the european union has made considerable progress in the past 20 years in implementing specific policies on anthropogenic emissions and air quality, but the issue of significant negative impacts and risks to the environment and human health remains unresolved. the regime for the application of the national emission ceilings should therefore be reviewed in order to ensure compliance with the international obligations of the union and the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that this directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation in a cost-effective manner, to mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived air pollutants and to improving air quality in general by enhancing synergies with union climate and energy policies and ensuring that there is no duplication of existing legislation. in particular, this directive should be aligned with emerging union and international climate change actions. i agree that in order to reduce emissions from major sources, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, off-road vehicles, inland waterways and national shipping, district heating and solvents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on the reduction of emissions in certain member states. the objective of this report is to further reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and other air pollutants in the eu by 2030. i support the updated rules setting stricter emission limits for the new period (until 2030). i believe that additional pollution control will reduce the negative health effects of air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's position on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere in the member states. poor air quality contributes to premature death, disability due to illness, high health costs, lost productivity, lost crops and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external cost of air pollution to society in relation to health is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition changes the natural environment, such as eutrophication and acidification, leading to a decrease in the diversity of surface vegetation, a slowdown in plant growth and an imbalance in nutrition. efforts are being made across the union to reduce air pollution, but most member states are not meeting agreed standards.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to establish new national emission limits for the main types of atmospheric pollutants. the aim of the amendments is to reduce the potential risks to human health, the environment and the climate.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. only by working together can we effectively reduce air pollution and its negative effects on public health and the environment. it is therefore necessary to coordinate actions in the areas of emission reduction and air quality, as well as climate change and biodiversity protection. it should be noted that the determination of emission reduction commitments should take into account the impact of emissions in member states not only at national level but also at cross-border level. however, stricter emission reduction commitments should not impose disproportionate costs on industry. member states should be allowed to use certain flexibilities. in addition, maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy and protecting the interests of smes is essential in order to move towards a low-carbon economy.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution under consideration covers a very important area of environmental protection. the document itself is well drafted, except for a few amendments drawn up by colleagues from the right-wing groups, which propose a looser regulation of pollutants. i'm glad we got them out of the way and got a good resolution.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mrs girling for a number of important reasons. good air quality is very important to eu citizens not only for health reasons but for a myriad of other reasons. i therefore believe that this matter should be dealt with by the authorities responsible. financial support is essential for eu countries to effectively combat environmental and air pollution. since the solution of this problem is of concern to all parties, the european union has a major responsibility to put in place the appropriate rules and restrictions. it is important to note that the rules and restrictions introduced should be flexible and enforceable by all eu member states. it is precisely these problems that mr girling summarised in his report.
in writing. this directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation in a cost-effective manner, to mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived air pollutants and to improving air quality in general.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on the final approval of the basel iii agreement, by which the european parliament draws attention to the work being done by the basel committee to finalise the basel iii framework, which aims to increase the simplicity, comparability and convergence of risk-weighted capital rules in order to tackle the problem of excessive differences in the risk-weighting of assets and thus apply the same rules to the same risk. the important point is that greater transparency and accountability are needed to ensure the legitimacy and accountability of the basel committee's deliberations. i agree with the provisions of the resolution calling on the commission to make a careful and thorough assessment of the qualitative and quantitative impact of recent and future reforms, including on the financing of the real economy in europe and on the forthcoming european legislative projects such as the capital markets union. i believe that the commission must ensure that new basel committee proposals or their implementation do not conflict with these initiatives and do not undermine the legacy of the legislation, and that the committee's conclusions should not be interpreted as a call for deregulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the final approval of the basel iii agreement. the basel committee on banking supervision has made proposals to improve the prudential framework for banks in addressing credit and operational risk issues. i agree with this proposal that banks must have sufficient capital to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the huge bailouts of public funds during the crisis. in addition, the shadow banking sector needs to be properly regulated in order to ensure fair competition and financial stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the one that expresses parliament's position on the basel iii agreement. the basel iii system aims to increase the simplicity, comparability and convergence of risk-weighted capital rules in order to address excessive risk-weighting disparities in asset valuation and to apply the same rules to the same risk. in the wake of the financial crisis, g20 leaders endorsed a comprehensive reform agenda that strengthens regulatory standards for international banks, including the tightening of prudential requirements. the basel committee develops internationally agreed minimum standards for risk mitigation requirements for large, internationally active banks. the basel committee monitors and reviews the implementation of these global standards and reports to the g20, and its guidelines are an important tool to avoid regulatory divergence worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the ep's position on the basel iii agreement. the objective of this agreement is to ensure the stability of the banking system, adequate lending to the real economy and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. in view of the impact of the crisis on the banking sector, it is important to ensure that banks have sufficient capital to support the real economy, mitigate systemic risk and avoid a repetition of the massive bailouts of public funds that took place during the crisis. moreover, to ensure fair competition and financial stability, the shadow banking sector needs to be more tightly regulated. it should be noted that the basel iii system will increase the simplicity, comparability and convergence of risk-weighted capital rules and will help to create a global level playing field. however, any review must first address the problem of banks that are too large and too well connected to fail and prevent the recovery of losses at the expense of society.
in writing. ‒ the basel iii package of legislation on financial regulation is a step backwards. it essentially states that some financial institutions are too large to be compelled to comply with the principles of fair competition or even sound financial management, and the state is in fact obliged to rescue them in the event of bankruptcy. the commission has, sadly, been the institution that has lobbied in many cases to weaken the basel iii agreements. i vote against, along with my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, and i call for greater attention to be paid to the supervision of financial institutions. at least as a preventive measure against the imminent potential for a new financial crisis.
i call for a dialogue between regulators at eu and international level and for exchanges of best practice on the application of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. we must admit that the security situation in europe has deteriorated considerably. it has become more complex, more dangerous, and more unpredictable. traditional and hybrid threats are posed by state and non-state actors, originate from the south and the east and have different effects on member states. the security of eu member states is closely interlinked, but their responses to common threats and risks are uncoordinated and inconsistent. the lack of coordination is one of the weaknesses of the union's action, which has been successfully exploited by the aggressors. europe also lacks the resilience to effectively counter hybrid threats. i agree with the rapporteur that for these reasons a thorough and substantial review of the csdp is needed to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union, to international crisis management and to demonstrate the eu's strategic autonomy. clearly, no country can cope with the current security challenges on its own. it is therefore necessary to achieve that the csdp is based on a strong principle of collective defence and effective financing and is implemented in coordination with international institutions in the field of security and defence, fully complementing nato. the eu should encourage member states to adhere to the nato-defined capability level requiring a minimum of 2% of gdp for defence spending, as reaffirmed at the wales and warsaw summits.
in writing. ‒ these past years have sadly marked a shift in europe’s security environment. we face tensions from russian aggression, terrorist threats in our own region, and the uncertainty left after the uk referendum and the us elections. all of these issues call upon us to work together in one of the most vital cornerstones of any society – its safety and security. which is why this time provides us the best window of opportunity to implement the common security and defence policy that would in no way compete with a similar transnational structure – nato – but on the contrary, would complement and strengthen its current agenda. this policy is not one of militarising europe, but rather increasing its readiness and capabilities for its defence. a large part of the report focuses on the sheer capabilities that the eu currently lacks in the defence sector, which is why it also calls for investments in defence research in order to catch up with the quickly advancing technologies all around the world. only through these strategies will we be able to independently ensure the safety and security of our citizens in these turbulent times.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the security environment in europe has significantly deteriorated and become less stable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. europe currently lacks the resilience to effectively counter hybrid threats, which are often cross-border in nature. i therefore agree that a review of the common security and defence policy (csdp) is necessary to enable the eu and its member states to make a strong contribution to the security of the union, to international crisis management and to demonstrate the eu's strategic autonomy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward on the implementation of a common security and defence policy in the european union. the european security environment has significantly deteriorated and has become less stable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable, with threats that are both traditional and hybrid, posed by state and non-state actors, originating from the south and the east, and affecting member states differently. parliament recalled that the security of the eu member states is closely interlinked and noted that their response to common threats and risks has so far been uncoordinated and inconsistent, making it difficult and impeding a more general approach. such a lack of coordination is one of the weaknesses of union action. europe lacks the resilience to effectively counter hybrid threats, which are often cross-border in nature. terrorism against europe by radical islamist organisations and individuals is unprecedented and is putting pressure on the european way of life. parliament stressed that this had made personal safety a priority and blurred the traditional distinction between the external and internal aspects of such safety. calls therefore on the eu to adapt to these security challenges, in particular by making more effective use of the existing csdp instruments and by coordinating them with other external and internal instruments, and calls for greater cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's report. in view of the complex geopolitical situation, we must make every effort to ensure our security and to strengthen cooperation and mutual understanding between european member states in the field of csdp.
in writing. ‒ the i believe that the military component of the common security and defence policy should not be increased and developed. the most important objective for european states today is not only to strengthen their own armed forces but also to pursue a much wider political and diplomatic dialogue. only a more united and therefore more effective european foreign and security policy can make a decisive contribution to the de-escalation of the armed conflict in iraq and syria and to the fight against the islamic state. in addition, a stronger preventive policy based on comprehensive deradicalization programmes, a more effective response to the spread of extremist content online and a stronger judicial cooperation between criminal justice systems are needed. the eu cannot be allowed to finance the defence sector and defence research. i do not support the proposal to deploy eu combat teams for any crisis management task. i believe that a new arms race or new military arrangements are by no means a way of escaping ever-growing tensions. they can only be catalysts for greater tensions. if we cannot properly address social problems because of the additional funding needed for new military needs, we may find that these problems flare up in the most disgusting ways.
in writing. ‒ the the report is an important topic in the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy, but it is rather weak. i think it focuses too much and even overly sensitive on the threat of terrorism and too little on the issue of the eu's defence capability against conventional military threats. the threat of terrorism has always been and remains a police function, which should not be confused with the role of the military. at the same time, more provisions could be included in the text on strengthening military cooperation between eu member states, reducing technological backwardness compared to the us, and assessing factors such as the russian threat. part of these provisions are contained in the proposed amendments. if they are rejected, this resolution will become a weak document, not in keeping with its original aims.
in writing. i note with concern that the terrorism directed against europe by radical islamist organisations and individuals is of unprecedented scale and is putting pressure on the european way of life; i stress that this has made personal security a priority and the traditional distinction between external and internal aspects of such security is disappearing.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda by third parties against the eu and its member states. i support the concern expressed in the resolution about the rapidly growing kremlin disinformation and propaganda in europe, including disinformation and propaganda to maintain or increase russian influence and with the aim of weakening and dividing the eu. one of the kremlin's propaganda aims is to portray certain european states as traditionally belonging to the russian sphere of influence, thus undermining their sovereignty and european identity. the fight against kremlin discourse therefore requires raising awareness of the crimes committed by the communist regime, public information campaigns and the use of education systems and support for research and document examination activities in the eu member states. it is also essential that the eu acts in a united and coordinated way in applying the means and instruments to combat propaganda. this is particularly important for the baltic states, which are becoming the front line of russia's information warfare. in lithuania, the kremlin is using a complex strategy of propaganda and disinformation, seeking to imply that traditional lithuanian values and the rest of western european values are different, and to show that lithuania is unassailable and therefore not worth defending. the national security services need to be brought together to counter the kremlin's propaganda, but i would like to stress that their autonomy must be maintained in order to ensure effective information gathering and the safeguarding of state secrets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties. european society is facing an active campaign of disinformation, propaganda and growing radicalisation. at present, strategic communication and information warfare are not only an external but also an internal issue for the eu. i therefore support the need to adopt an eu strategic communication action plan to counter propaganda, disinformation and growing radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the one in which parliament spoke about the eu's strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties. the eu, its member states and its citizens are facing increasing systemic pressure to act on information, disinformation and disinformation campaigns and propaganda from countries and non-state actors such as cross-border terrorist or criminal organisations in the eu's neighbourhood. anti-eu propaganda takes many forms and uses a variety of means, often tailored to the specificities of eu member states, in order to distort the truth, create doubt, antagonise member states, promote strategic isolation between eu and nato partners and paralyse decision-making, discredit the eu institutions and transatlantic partnerships, which are of recognised importance to the european security system and economic structure, in the eyes and minds of citizens of the eu and its neighbouring countries, and undermine or challenge european political discourse based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. parliament therefore calls on the eu institutions to recognise that strategic communication and information warfare are not only an external but also an internal issue for the eu, and expresses concern at the limited perception in some member states of being audiences and arenas for propaganda and disinformation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in recent years, european countries have been confronted with particularly intensive campaigns of propaganda and disinformation aimed at undermining the fundamental democratic values that europe cherishes, undermining the unity of the eu member states and fomenting destruction. the russian federation has been involved in the recruitment and use of foreign fighters in the drc. the most effective european response to these campaigns is to raise public awareness of the specific nature of these campaigns, their sponsors, their sources of funding and the real motives behind them. education is the most important factor in enabling citizens to critically analyse media content and react to disinformation.
in writing. ‒ the we must take comprehensive action to combat radicalisation and terrorist propaganda. in particular, greater attention must be paid to measures for closer cooperation between the member states and the eu. action to counter the threat of terrorism must be strengthened, while respecting human rights and the rule of law. however, in the fight against anti-eu propaganda and disinformation, constructive relations with third countries should be pursued. it should be noted that the promotion of wider political and diplomatic dialogue and peaceful cooperation arrangements with neighbouring third countries is necessary to alleviate tensions. it is necessary to prevent daesh from receiving financing and funds from oil or arms trafficking. some member states should therefore review their relations with certain third countries accordingly, as this is particularly important to prevent radicalisation and protect eu values.
in writing. ‒ we live in an information society, where publicly communicated knowledge is of paramount importance. not only does this facilitate the rapid spread of knowledge, skills and experience, but it also makes our society highly vulnerable to attacks, lies and propaganda from hostile forces. the document under consideration is very timely and necessary to help combat lies and propaganda. i'm unambiguously in favor of it. i would also like to point out that even the best legislation will not solve these problems once and for all. the only long-term and sustainable solution is an active, well-informed civil society, able to stand up and resist lies and propaganda. it is the support for the strengthening of such a society that must be a key part of the eu's information policy and a priority of strategic communication.
eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. all persons with disabilities, in particular women and children, as well as deaf and hard of hearing persons, shall enjoy the same rights and shall have the right to dignity of the person, to independent living, to self-determination and to full participation in the life of the community. i therefore agree that there is a need for qualified professional sign language interpreters whose status must be guaranteed by official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and the eu institutions, by formal training (university or similar, equivalent to 3 years of full-time study and meeting the requirements for the training of spoken language interpreters), by registration (official accreditation and quality control system, e.g. through continuous professional development), and by official recognition of the profession. i agree that sign language translation is a professional service that should be properly remunerated.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. there are about 1 million sign language users in the eu and 51 million citizens with hearing impairments, many of whom also use sign language. citizens with hearing impairments have the right to autonomy and full participation in public life, and sign language interpreters are essential to ensure this. however, the situation of sign language interpreters varies widely between member states: in some cases they are informal family helpers, in others they are fully qualified university-trained professional interpreters. there is also a shortage of qualified professional sign language interpreters in all member states. i therefore agree that it is necessary to ensure that there are qualified sign language professionals and that they are adequately remunerated. all sign language users must also have access to the same information and means of communication as everyone else, by ensuring sign language translation, subtitling, voice-to-text services and/or alternative means of communication.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke in favour of strengthening the profession of sign language and sign language interpreters in the european union. the resolution calls for the recognition of sign languages as official languages in the european union and for the strengthening of the profession of sign language interpreter. almost 52 million people in the european union use sign languages, but the profession of sign language interpreter is not recognised in all member states and in many it is not yet taught at university. i believe that deaf and blind people and people with hearing impairments should have access to the same information, communication and learning opportunities as everyone else. we have to provide sign language translation, subtitling, voice-to-text services, and interpreters.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. sign language users must have better access to information and conditions ensuring their full participation in public life. the training of qualified professional sign language interpreters and the provision of working conditions for them is also of particular importance for these purposes.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. it should be noted that accessibility is a prerequisite for the full participation of deaf, deaf-blind and hard of hearing people in society, with full autonomy and equal rights. they must have access to the same information and means of communication as everyone else. in this context, it is necessary to provide for increased aid and more specific measures. all the better, sign language should be included in educational programmes to raise awareness and promote the use of sign languages. the necessary accommodation measures, including the provision of professional sign language interpreters, must be in place to ensure equal opportunities in employment, education and training. in addition, national and regional sign language (s) should be officially recognised in the member states and in the eu institutions and working conditions for sign language interpreters should be improved.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to provide for the use of sign language interpreters in the work of the eu institutions. this opens up the potential to reach an even wider audience. on the other hand, i am missing the specific revision statistics and the deaf-interest analyses of the real need for such translation and the justification of the costs involved.
in writing. i am aware of the importance of accurate and correct interpretation and translation services, especially in court and other legal settings; therefore, i reiterate that a highly qualified professional sign language interpreters play an important role, particularly in these settings.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benzatone, as the assessment of the representative use of the active substance benzatone was not sufficient to conclude that the plant protection product containing the active substance would not adversely affect human or animal health or groundwater or would not have an unacceptable impact on the environment. as there is still insufficient information on the safety of benzatone, i cannot support the amendments by colleague pavel poc, which call on the commission to approve benzatone by 31 july 2024, i.e. for 7.5 years. the amount of harmful substances already present in our environment is such that the use of another harmful substance cannot be tolerated. since the pavel poc amendment was nevertheless adopted, i had to vote against the entire resolution. i hope that the commission will receive the missing information and make a thorough assessment before adopting the decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benzatone. by commission implementing regulation of 8 april 2016, the approval of the active substance benzazone was extended until 30 june 2017 as a consequence of a deferred assessment of the substance. however, following the comments received in the expiry review report, it was decided that efsa should carry out an expert consultation and conclude whether the active substance benthazone can be expected to meet the conditions laid down in the regulation of the european parliament and of the council. based on the efsa conclusions, it was concluded that the evaluation of the representative use of the active substance benzodiazepine was not sufficient. i therefore agree that the commission infringed the provisions of the regulation and the precautionary principle by applying the active substance benthazone.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee. this implementing regulation was submitted in response to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benzatone. the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide against weeds that have already emerged on the open ground, suitable for many crops and commonly used in agriculture. the active substance benthazone has a high potential for direct leakage to groundwater due to its characteristic properties. according to the uk environment agency, the active substance benthazone is the most commonly detected approved pesticide in uk groundwater, and can also be found on the surface of water, with a similar situation across europe. following the consideration of the comments received in the review report on the renewal, it was decided to request additional information from the applicants. the parliament also noted that the consumer risk assessment was not completed as the proposed sediment definitions for the assessment of the risk to plants and the impact on domestic animals were considered to be non-exhaustive due to the data gaps identified.
in writing. - i voted for the motion for a resolution. i agree with the experts that the commission failed to take all circumstances into account and to apply the precautionary principle when renewing the approval of the active substance benzazone. i agree with the provisions of the resolution which call on the commission to gather and evaluate the missing information before taking a decision. for these reasons, the european parliament asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. careful and careful selection of plant protection products is necessary to avoid the risks to human health and the environment from pesticides and to avoid contamination of water bodies, groundwater and soil. in my view, the authorisation of the active substance benzatone should not be renewed, given the adverse effects on the environment and human health of that substance. it should be noted that the commission's decision to approve an active substance at the same time as requesting data to confirm its safety will allow it to be placed on the market before the commission has all the data necessary to support that decision. such activities may have adverse effects on human or animal health, the environment and groundwater. in view of this, i think that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing regulation and submit a new draft to the committee. in addition, before adopting a decision to approve, the commission must request and assess the missing information.
in writing. i urge the commission to request and assess the missing information before taking a decision.
thank you, your honor. violence against women is one of the most serious human rights violations, which has no geographical, economic, cultural or social boundaries. almost one in four women in the european union has experienced physical violence. and all violent crimes - physical, psychological, sexual, economic - do irreparable damage to the physical and mental health of women. and while we're paying a lot of attention to the problem of violence against women, it's sad to see that we're still failing to protect women from these crimes. last year in parliament we adopted a written statement calling on the commission to declare 2016 the year of the fight against violence against women. this request was not granted by the commission. but i commend her for taking concrete steps to get the european union to join the istanbul convention, which is a big and important step that would really make a breakthrough in this never-ending fight, and we must remember that all programmes and measures to stop violence against women will only succeed if women are assured that when they report violence they will be taken care of, psychological and social support provided, health care, and violent offenders punished.
in writing. mr president, the european ombudsman's work has a very significant impact on the people of the european union. the report submitted by emily o'reilly for 2015 is very detailed, transparent and factual, which makes it easier for us to analyse the actions of this institution. it is good that this report on behalf of parliament has raised a number of important issues which the ombudsman should take more seriously in the future. for example, citizens' complaints about high-ranking officials or politicians' involvement in corruption scandals. more attention should also be paid to the rights of national minorities, which are not always respected in the eu countries and are enshrined in the lisbon treaty and international conventions. i welcome the sincere and positive work of the ombudsman in developing eu legal frameworks for people with disabilities, based on the un convention, which aim to improve the protection of people with disabilities and promote their rights in society. moreover, these rights must be respected by both the eu member states and the eu administration. i am pleased that the ombudsman has stressed the importance of making more effective use of the support of the european administration, which will help to deal more quickly and effectively with problems that are of concern to all citizens.
author. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, ildar dadin is a courageous citizen of russia, has been repeatedly tortured, beaten and threatened with murder in a russian jail. for what? for holding a banner saying, i quote: ‘if you keep silence today they will come to you tomorrow and others will keep silence’. ildar dadin is the first person in russia sentenced under the new article 212.1. now peaceful protest will bring up to five years in jail. there are 102 political prisoners today in russia, with this draconian law in place, how many will there be tomorrow? colleagues, to keep power, putin chose to withdraw from the civilised community of the rule of law, like the rome statute of icc, just recently. moscow no longer obeys the rulings of the european court of human rights. i call on russia to repeal article 212.1 and immediately release mr ildar dadin.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on macro-financial assistance to jordan. due to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis. since 2011, its economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been severely affected by the unrest affecting the region. the decreased flow of tourists and foreign direct investment, blocked trade routes and ongoing disruptions to natural gas supplies from egypt are hampering economic growth in jordan and adversely affecting the country's budget. however, even in these difficult circumstances, jordan has the distinction of being, together with lebanon, the largest host country in the world for refugees relative to its population, and has committed to facilitating the employment of syrian refugees. 650,000 syrians are currently registered as refugees, with the jordanian authorities citing as many as 1.4 million refugees on its territory. the number of non-jordanians living in the country has doubled in five years. the majority of these people live in urban areas, which puts a great deal of pressure on jordan's public services, particularly in the areas of health and education. the debt of jordan amounted to 93,4% of its gdp at the end of 2015. i agree with the rapporteur that, as jordan faces economic difficulties, the european union must demonstrate that it is supporting its partner, whose refugee policy commands respect. it is important that the macro-financial assistance be mobilised without delay in order to enable jordan to benefit from it at this critical time.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the continued provision of macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. due to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis. since 2011, its economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been the most affected by the unrest affecting the region. the decline in tourist and foreign direct investment flows, the blocking of trade routes and the continuing disruption of natural gas supplies from egypt have slowed jordan's growth and had a negative impact on its budgetary position. the conflict in syria and iraq is closing the historical market for jordanian products. in the context of these difficult conditions, jordan is still hosting a large number of displaced persons. together with lebanon, it is the largest per capita host country for refugees in the world and has committed to facilitating the employment of syrian refugees. 650,000 syrians are currently registered as refugees, with jordanian authorities citing as many as 1.4 million refugees on its territory. in order to help jordan cope with the crisis and to cover its remaining external financing needs, the european union has already provided macro-financial assistance and should continue to provide assistance to jordan to meet its challenges.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to jordan. jordan, together with lebanon, is the largest per capita host country for refugees in the world and has committed to facilitating the employment of syrian refugees. 650,000 syrians are currently registered as refugees, with the jordanian authorities even mentioning the number of 1.4 million refugees on its territory. the number of non-jordanians living in the country has doubled in five years. most of them live in cities rather than in camps, putting a strain on jordan's public services.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the main victims of the conflict in syria. this is the country that has attracted a very large number of refugees. and it is jordan, unlike many other arab countries, that has taken in these refugees and is doing everything it can to help them. in addition, jordan is one of the few democratic and well-governed states in the middle east that is actively involved in the european neighbourhood policy. despite a relatively high level of prosperity, the country faces significant financial challenges due to the conflict in syria, in particular in balancing its macro-financial flows. we must therefore, both for the sake of security in europe's neighbourhood and for the sake of common human aspirations, do our utmost to help jordan to survive. the decision under consideration will provide the eu with a relatively small amount of aid, but it will be primarily an investment. an investment not only in strengthening its security, in ensuring stability at the eu's borders, but also an investment in humanity and mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the operation and supervision of the regulatory bodies responsible for the award of occupational pensions. it should be noted that, in order to facilitate further the mobility of workers between member states, this directive aims to ensure the sound management of occupational pension schemes, the provision of information to members of the scheme, transparency and the security of occupational pension schemes. this directive should facilitate the development of new and innovative pension products in collective schemes aiming at ensuring adequate pensions for all. it is important to clarify the procedures that allow institutions to operate cross-border and to remove unnecessary obstacles that make such cross-border operations more difficult. the facilitation of cross-border activities under the relevant union risk-management framework could be expected to have a positive impact on the undertakings concerned and their employees, irrespective of the member state in which they work, as occupational pension schemes would be managed centrally. i believe that this is the right step towards a better protection of the interests of eu citizens, which will also contribute to the creation of an even closer internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the directive on the functioning and supervision of institutions responsible for the award of occupational pensions. the general objective of this directive is to facilitate the accumulation of occupational pensions. the economic and financial crisis of the previous years put a great deal of pressure on pension systems in many member states, in particular the first-tier pension systems. as a result, pension benefits have been cut in various countries. in addition, societies in all member states are ageing. at the same time, the working age population and birth rates are falling, young people are studying longer and entering the labour market at an older age. in this context, more member states should consider the possibility of establishing additional second-tier pension schemes, which should help to ensure greater security of pension benefits. however, in the light of the experience of the economic and financial crisis, good governance rules do give people a high level of confidence in their pension system and encourage them to participate in such a system. the new wording of this directive should therefore be useful in encouraging member states to develop occupational pension systems that people can trust.
in writing. - i voted yes. the amendments to the directive aim to ensure the sound management of the occupational pension scheme, the provision of information to members of the scheme, transparency and the security of occupational pension provision. this directive should facilitate the development of new and innovative pension products in collective schemes aiming at ensuring adequate pensions for all.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the evaluation of the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision and supervision is well-drawn and balanced. it is also important that the ep resolution under consideration includes our amendments on the progressive, environmentally responsible approach. i therefore support this document.
in writing. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market for the provision of occupational pensions organised at european level, the commission, after consulting the edps, should review the application of this directive, draw up a report and submit it to the european parliament and the council.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in syria. i want to draw attention to russia's role in the syrian conflict. by dragging russia into a military conflict in syria where civilians are being killed en masse, putin is trying to prove that russia is more than a regional power, as us president barack obama said some time ago. it is true that the syrian conflict can no longer be resolved without moscow's participation. the kremlin's emergence as a major player in syria and the entire middle east comes at a price. never, not even during the cold war, has the world been so close to the brink of serious uncontrolled military conflict as it is now, and this is the result of kremlin policy. the situation is so fragile that the slightest human error could provoke a u.s.-russian confrontation. and let's not forget that the united states considers the kremlin the most important rival in the world. i agree that those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity should face the consequences and be held accountable. i think the syrian case should be referred to the international criminal court (icc). the reasons for putin's decision to withdraw from the icc on 16 november are therefore clear, and this decision allows the conclusion that russia, as a permanent member of the un security council, is renouncing its commitment to international justice. such behaviour calls into question russia's legitimacy as a member of the un security council and its guarantees to fulfil its obligations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke about the situation in syria. as the conflict in syria enters its sixth year, the extreme violence and brutality has left more than 400 000 people dead and more than 13 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. in 2016, 8.7 million people are projected to be internally displaced within syria, and 4.8 million have fled the country. the fighting and bombing have ceased, and the humanitarian situation has worsened. there is a persistent health crisis across syria, as according to unicef, more than two-thirds of syrians in the region lack access to safe water and nearly 6 million children need urgent life-saving assistance. parliament therefore calls for an immediate end to the bombing and indiscriminate attacks on civilians. notes also that all parties must give priority to the protection of civilians, irrespective of their ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and take all appropriate measures to that end, and strongly condemns the indiscriminate rocket attacks carried out by armed opposition groups on the heavily civilian-populated suburbs of western aleppo; stresses that a large number of civilians, including children, are being injured and killed; calls on all parties to the conflict to take the necessary measures to protect civilians, including civilian objects, in accordance with international law. parliament notes that the primary responsibility for the protection of the syrian people lies with the syrian regime.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for the resolution. i strongly condemn all attacks against syrian civilians and civilian infrastructure, and the continuation of all sieges in syria. all conditions must be created to provide the syrian population with humanitarian aid and essential goods as soon as possible, in particular in devastated and hard-to-reach areas. i also condemn in the strongest possible terms all atrocities and violations of human rights and international humanitarian law committed by non-state armed terrorist groups, in particular daesh and jabhat fateh al-sham and other jihadist groups. i join the calls for all participants in the international support group for syria to resume negotiations, facilitate a stable ceasefire and work more actively towards a lasting political solution in syria.
in writing. - the situation in syria is of concern to the whole world. the ep's draft resolution on this issue is comprehensive and aims to present a unified eu approach. i support the project. at the same time, i would like to see more concrete proposals for crisis management measures, including possible military ones. unfortunately, the eu seems to be focusing on dealing with the consequences of the crisis rather than the causes.
in writing. i commend the efforts of humanitarian workers to provide much-needed support, food, water and medicine to those trapped in the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for resolution on eu-turkey relations. turkey’s long journey towards the eu has rather been a bumpy road of twists and turns. i recall voting in this hemicycle in december of 2004 on whether the eu should start accession negotiations with turkey following an unusually heated debate. ever since its accession talks with the eu, that started in 2005, only one out of 35 chapters has been closed. and that could be all that turkey achieves on its path towards the eu if the current situation in the country will not change. more than one hundred thousand people have been sacked or suspended, thousands arrested, including 10 lawmakers from the opposition party in parliament, also journalists. this situation is simply not compatible with the status of the eu candidate country. our position, reaction and our message to mr erdoğan should be clear: fundamental principles like the rule of law, human rights, freedom of speech and freedom of the press are crucial and non-negotiable. enlargement negotiations with turkey should be frozen immediately.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it was the one that parliament had to say about eu-turkey relations. the european union and the european parliament strongly condemned the failed military coup in turkey and recognised the legitimate duty of the turkish authorities to prosecute those responsible for and associated with the coup attempt. however, the repressive measures taken by the turkish government following the declaration of the state of emergency are disproportionate and violate the fundamental rights and freedoms protected by the turkish constitution and the democratic values on which the european union is founded. there are serious concerns about the conditions of detention and arrest following the failed coup attempt, as well as the severe restrictions on freedom of expression and the press and media in turkey. parliament noted that it remained committed to maintaining turkey's links with the eu, but called on the commission and the member states to initiate a temporary freeze on the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey. parliament also reiterated that the accession process would be formally suspended if the turkish government reintroduced the death penalty.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the european union and the european parliament strongly condemn the failed military coup in turkey, but the repressive measures taken by the turkish government following the declaration of the state of emergency are disproportionate and in breach of the fundamental rights and freedoms and democratic values guaranteed by the turkish constitution.
in writing. ‒ it is very sad to see the deterioration of eu-turkey relations in recent times. the main reason for this is not on the eu side. president erdoğan's increasingly autocratic style of government is incompatible with the values promoted by the eu and turkey's ambitions to become an eu member. the suspension of the accession negotiations therefore seems to be a coercive but necessary measure. the report also includes measures and suggestions on what the eu can do to prevent a deterioration in relations with turkey.
in writing. i am concerned about the rule of law, democracy and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. i regret that violence against women is too often treated as a personal matter and too easily tolerated, when in fact it is a violation of fundamental rights and a serious crime that must be punished. the impunity of perpetrators must end in order to break the vicious circle of silence and loneliness of women and girls who are victims of violence. unfortunately, eu citizens and residents are not equally protected against gender-based violence, as there is no coherent framework and different policies and legislation in the member states, inter alia, on the definition of crimes and the scope of legislation, which make them less protected against violence. i support the commission's proposal of 4 march 2016 for the eu to accede to the istanbul convention the first legally binding instrument on preventing and combating violence against women at international level. i also support the call to speed up the debate in the council on this issue and for those member states which have not yet done so to ratify the istanbul convention without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the council to ratify as soon as possible the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention). it would be a strong impulse to take even more action, to live through this shameful phenomenon of our daily lives. physical, psychological and sexual violence against women remains one of the most painful and widespread phenomena in lithuania and throughout the european union. it is estimated that one in four women in the european union is a victim of physical violence. this requires urgent action at both eu and national level.
in writing. - i voted yes. i support the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. accession to the eu will ensure a coherent european legal framework to prevent, combat and protect violence against women and gender-based violence. it will also ensure greater coherence and effectiveness of the eu's internal and external policies and better implementation of the eu legislation, programmes and funds related to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the question of the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on combating violence against women seems to be one of the least controversial. i am convinced that the eu, as a securities community, has no right to withdraw from this issue and must become a party to this treaty.
in writing. i strongly condemn all forms of violence against women and girls and draw attention to the disproportionate number of women who are victims of violence and abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, in which the european parliament welcomes the ongoing efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency in the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i believe that this is an important area and that the greatest possible transparency on this agreement will ensure its successful conclusion in the future. i support the commission's move to publish a large number of ita documents, thus promoting transparency as one of the three pillars of the new trade strategy. i believe that the european ombudsman can make a significant contribution to the wider effort to maintain and strengthen the confidence of european citizens in the work of the commission and in the benefits of international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because it was the european parliament's assessment of the european ombudsman's activities in 2015. parliament endorsed the annual activity report 2015 presented by the european ombudsman and welcomed the ongoing efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency in the negotiations on the tip by submitting proposals to the commission to this end. parliament supports the european ombudsman's commitment to make the european central bank (ecb) more transparent and to meet high governance standards, in particular as a member of the trio and the quadriga group overseeing fiscal consolidation programmes in the eu countries. parliament also welcomed the fact that the european ombudsman was continuing to investigate the backdoor phenomenon in the commission and acknowledged that, following these investigations, the commission had provided more information on the names of senior officials who had moved to the private sector. in particular, parliament is deeply concerned that former commission president barroso has been appointed as adviser and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international.
in writing. - i voted yes. the ep resolution on the european ombudsman's activities in 2015 welcomes the ongoing efforts to increase transparency, but also highlights a number of areas where the ombudsman's activities still need to be improved, such as the lobby register, the reconciliation of public and private interests of commissioners, the methodology of the commission's handling of complaints of irregularities, and so on.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the eu ombudsman's activity report. i would also like to stress that the text of the european parliament's resolution put to the vote is not without its faults. its initial version did not give due weight to the transparency problems associated with ttip, such as the issue of the neutrality of the european central bank, together with the participation in the activities of the presidency tripartite, or the problems related to the implementation of the code of conduct. it is also gratifying that the document has been improved by proposals to give the ombudsman greater powers in the area of public access to documents, by a positive assessment of the ombudsman's work in investigating the transparency of the activities of the commission's expert groups, by strengthening the lobbyist register, by assessing the compatibility of the activities of former commission president j.m. barroso with the code of conduct and by addressing the issue of conflicts of interest of current commissioners such as m.a. cañete or n. kroes.
in writing. i support the ombudsman's inquiry into the composition of the commission's expert groups and the transparency of their work; i note that the commission is working to open these groups to the public and stress the need for further action to ensure full transparency.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the development of the definitive vat system and the fight against fraud vat, other vat is a significant and growing source of eu revenue, generating almost €1 trillion in 2014. it accounts for about 7% of the eu's gross domestic product and is also one of the sources of the eu's own resources. the current vat system was not fraud-proof from the outset. despite various initiatives, fraud has not yet been reduced. the main obstacle to reforming the vat system is the need for unanimity among member states. the implementation of substantial reforms has been delayed or blocked by member states that continue to use their old primary systems and do not adequately fulfil their anti-fraud responsibilities and controls. i agree with the rapporteur that the establishment of a definitive vat system will contribute to the fight against vat fraud and that the proposed extension and application of the reverse charge system to all business transactions throughout the eu could be beneficial for a sustainable vat system. the application of this model would eliminate the need for the entire deduction and refund procedure, reduce distortions of competition and the financing and administrative burden on entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because it was the report in which parliament spoke about the creation of a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. since the establishment of the common market on 1 january 1993 has led to the abolition of border controls in intra-community trade and since the european union's vat system, which has been in force since 1993, is only a temporary and transitional procedure under articles 402 to 404 of the vat directive in force. the commission is required to report to the european parliament and the council every four years on the functioning of the current vat system and, in particular, on the transitional procedures. the existing vat system particularly when applied to crossborder transactions by large corporations is vulnerable to fraud, tax avoidance strategies, non-collection of vat due to insolvency or miscalculation. welcomes therefore the commission's intention to present a proposal by 2017 for a definitive vat system that is simple, fair, reliable, efficient and better protected against fraud;
in writing. - i voted yes. cross-border vat fraud costs the eu member states and european taxpayers around eur 50 billion a year. i hope that the commission's proposal will help to make the vat system more fraud-proof and the tax collection system more reliable and efficient.
in writing. ‒ vat is one of the most important sources of tax revenue. and it's also one of the most important sources of tax fraud. the creation of a unified system would therefore be an important step towards ensuring a more transparent management of public finances. the document presented is good. it can be improved by the inclusion of a number of amendments which call for a reduction in the number of exemptions, for greater cooperation between the member states, for combating tax competition, thus avoiding parasitism by some member states at the expense of others.
in writing. i welcome the latest commission communication of 7 april 2016 and the intention to take further measures to prevent fraud and to help improve the current vat system.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. the trade in wild plants and animals has become a multi-billion euro criminal industry run by organised crime networks. the risk of detection is low and the financial reward is high - this encourages criminal groups to use wildlife caught and transported illegally to finance their criminal activities. i believe that the new 2016-2020 action plan will strengthen the eu's role in the global fight against wildlife trafficking through the priorities of prevention, enforcement, cooperation and recognition of the eu as a destination market and point of origin and transit for wildlife products. i agree with the rapporteurs that eu member states must take on a shared responsibility and make greater efforts to tackle this challenge and halt the rapid extinction of some of the most protected species. by doing so, we will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and support the eu's security system, improve the lives of local communities, accelerate sustainable development and strengthen the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ europe has been one of the biggest destination markets and transit points for illegal wildlife smuggling. not only do these practices take many endangered species to the brink of extinction, but they also create a security problem in many countries. because it is easy to harnessing, wildlife trafficking is preferred by many organized crime groups and terrorist organizations over smuggling such things as drugs, cigarettes or migrants. this action plan calls for three major goals and priorities. the first is start battling wildlife trafficking at its roots; this can be done through the many tools available to the european union already, such as those focusing on combating corruption or awareness raising campaigns. secondly, the action plan calls for more scrutiny and transparency when it comes to seizure information and data in member states. the third point focuses on global partnerships and how we should amend trade deals and incorporate clauses in future ones about wildlife trafficking and measures to stop it.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by parliament on the eu action plan to stop the illegal trade in wild plants and animals. on world wildlife day 2015, un secretary-general ban ki-moon said that 'it is time to start taking wildlife crime seriously'. it was a simple but powerful statement that the illegal trade in wild plants and animals poses a serious and growing threat not only to the survival of many species of flora and fauna, but also to the rule of law, human rights, global governance, the well-being of local communities and, most importantly, the very survival of the world's ecosystems. the trade in wild plants and animals has become a multi-billion euro criminal industry run by organised crime networks. the risk of detection is low and the financial reward is high - this encourages criminal groups to use wildlife caught and transported illegally to finance their criminal activities. parliament called on the commission, the member states, the european external action service and the eu agencies europol and eurojust to recognise the serious and growing threat of wildlife crime and to take political decisions as a matter of urgency. it also welcomed the commission's action plan to combat illicit trade in wildlife, which stresses the need for concerted action to address the root causes of illicit trade in wildlife, to effectively apply and enforce existing rules and to strengthen global cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination.
in writing. - i voted yes. the illegal trade in wild plants and animals poses a serious threat to the survival of many species of flora and fauna and is in breach of the rule of law. organized crime networks generate billions of euros in illegal trade in wild plants and animals. for these reasons, it is necessary to take the appropriate policy decisions as soon as possible, to apply and enforce the existing rules more effectively and to strengthen cooperation between the parties.
in writing. ‒ the fight against illegal trade in animals is an important expression of both humanism and a responsible approach to environmental protection. it is welcome that an action plan to combat such trafficking is already in place. i support this initiative and even call for it to be improved by giving greater attention to cooperation with third countries in this area, for example by extending the concept of development cooperation with some countries discussed earlier to include more aspects related to the reduction of illegal trade in animals.
in writing. i welcome the commission's action plan to combat illicit trade in wildlife, which stresses the need for concerted action to address the causes of illicit trade in wildlife, and to apply and enforce the existing rules effectively.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for the report on new opportunities for small transport companies. in the absence of relevant statistical data, it is difficult to understand the real situation of small transport companies in europe. the small transport undertakings are difficult to assess because they are of a very different nature, depending on the type of transport, the country, the type of service provided and the competitive structure of the market in which they operate. however, these companies play an important role in both passenger and freight transport and facilitate the mobility organised by historically large companies. by better understanding the nuances of the local market, being closer to customers and/or often being flexible and able to innovate, small businesses have developed individual transport, especially for the last few miles in densely populated areas. unfortunately, the legal uncertainty surrounding the definition of 'transport service providers' hinders the implementation of fair competition and reduces the ambition of many small businesses, and the public aid available to small businesses at both eu and national level is not always easy to use, the timelines are not very consistent with innovation cycles. i agree that europe needs to be more attentive to small businesses and take more action to create a common european transport area and harmonise the application of legislation, improve consumer protection and promote fair competition, and better coordinate the actions of local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility, which will lead to a future with less carbon dioxide in the environment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report of parliament on the situation of small transport undertakings in europe. small transport companies play an important role in ensuring smooth mobility in europe, but often have difficulty entering or remaining in this market, especially because of monopolies in this market. small enterprises provide an additional benefit, particularly in remote and densely populated areas, because they have a good knowledge of the local market, are close to customers and/or are vibrant and capable of innovation. small enterprises can also provide tailor-made services and help to combat social exclusion, create jobs, economic activity, improve mobility management and contribute to the development of tourism. transport companies face challenges in responding to the growing demand for mobility in the face of underdeveloped infrastructures and increasing environmental demands. all vehicles are under pressure to deliver safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions that are environmentally responsible for cop21 and reduce congestion, but this is harder and more costly for small businesses to cope with. parliament therefore calls on the member states to abolish excessive regulation, which is often associated with protectionist and corporatist reflexes, and which encourages fragmentation, complexity and inflexibility of the internal market and increases inequality.
in writing. ‒ the i voted yes. the small transport undertakings are difficult to assess because they are of a very different nature, depending on the type of transport, the country, the type of service provided and the competitive structure of the market in which they operate. however, these companies play an important role in both passenger and freight transport and facilitate the mobility organised by historically large companies. by better understanding the nuances of the local market, being closer to customers and/or often being flexible and able to innovate, small businesses have developed individual transport, especially for the last few miles in densely populated areas. unfortunately, the legal uncertainty surrounding the definition of 'transport service providers' hinders the implementation of fair competition and reduces the ambition of many small businesses, and the public aid available to small businesses at both eu and national level is not always easy to use, the timelines are not very consistent with innovation cycles. i agree that europe needs to be more attentive to small businesses and take more action to create a common european transport area and harmonise the application of legislation, improve consumer protection and promote fair competition, and better coordinate the actions of local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility, which will lead to a future with less carbon dioxide in the environment.
in writing. ‒ a resolution on new opportunities for small transport enterprises is a necessary and well-drafted document. proper regulation in this area would help to create many new jobs and better meet customer needs.
in writing. i welcome the new opportunities for small transport companies and new collaborative business models.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in belarus. it is an important document, especially after the recent parliamentary elections, which the international community has identified as having many shortcomings and irregularities. it is clear that democracy and human rights are not as important in belarus as the health and safety of its citizens. in this area, we have to constantly raise security concerns about the belarusian nuclear power plant being built in astrava, less than 50 km from vilnius, the capital of lithuania, and not far from the polish border. the implementation of this project requires careful international oversight to ensure that it complies with international requirements and standards for nuclear safety and environmental protection, including the application of the un espo and aarhus conventions. the commission must therefore include the issues of safety and transparency of this nuclear power plant under construction in its dialogue with belarus and russia, given that its construction is financed by russia and uses technology from rosatom. the construction of the astravyansk nuclear power plant is a matter of grave concern and i therefore look forward to the commission's active involvement and the use of all the instruments and instruments at its disposal to achieve the most transparent results and the greatest possible safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke about the situation in belarus. the 2016 elections showed positive trends, such as the authorities not creating significant obstacles to the collection of signatures for nomination and campaigning and the refusal to register nominated groups and candidates representing only a small percentage. the osce mission for democratic institutions and human rights assessed that the 2016 parliamentary elections were effectively organised. however, long-standing systemic deficiencies remained, including restrictions on the legal basis for political rights and fundamental freedoms. the european parliament therefore acknowledges the progress made by belarus in the 2016 parliamentary elections compared to the previous elections and notes that the opposition will have two representatives in the newly elected parliament. regrets, however, that the elections did not meet many of the key international standards for democratic and free elections or the country's electoral legislation; in particular, it emphasises that not all candidates had equal access to the state media, that the electoral commissions were not impartial, that administrative resources were misused in favour of candidates supporting the government, that there were a number of cases in which voters were forced to participate in the early voting and that some procedures appeared opaque to observers.
in writing. - i voted yes. i support the provisions of the resolution on the intolerable violations of democratic principles and human rights in belarus. the resolution also raises the issue of the problems facing the astravyansk nuclear power plant under construction. this issue must be of relevance not only to lithuania but also to the whole european region because of the potential risks to the environment, human health and public safety.
in writing. ‒ belarus is an important neighbour of the european union. we cannot help but be concerned about the situation in this country. in particular, when there is some progress in the field of human rights, even if there is a basis for fear, it can remain only declarative, as has happened many times before. as belarus seeks opportunities for relations with the eu, we have a great opportunity to remind its authorities that lasting stability and prosperity are only possible in well-governed, democratic, market economy countries. at the same time, it is important to point out the irresponsible behaviour of belarus. just a few miles from the eu's external borders, this country, or rather russia, is building a dangerous nuclear power plant. we have heard a lot about the safety culture of the main contractor, rosatom. the bad feeling is reinforced by the unusual design decisions, such as the construction away from the water body, the intention to pump water from a river several kilometers below the reactor to cool it, and the news of accidents, ranging from wall collapse to the collapse of the reactor shell, or the fact that the belarusian authorities refuse to carry out resistance tests. in other words, an authoritarian state is building a time bomb that could harm more than 100 million europeans. i therefore tabled a draft amendment to this resolution calling on the commission to give this construction a great deal of attention. of course, it would be best if belarus would abandon this pointless construction altogether. that's what i'm asking you to do.
in writing. the paradox is that in the european union, the most developed continent, more than one in four children now lives in poverty, and in many countries poverty is more threatening to children than to adults. i am therefore convinced that we need new concrete measures, as proposed by our socialist group. we urge the commission and the member states to create a child guarantee, under which every child can receive free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. to reduce child poverty, we need to create a special eu budget for this, because without money we can't do anything. now we have different measures to reduce child poverty, but they're not coordinated, and most of the time, the money from the funds is going to other areas, and there's just no money left to invest in children. i therefore call again on the commission to allocate a dedicated fund to finance the child guarantee in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020). unfortunately, without the financial resources (budget) we will not be able to do anything we will not be able to contribute to reducing child poverty. in addition, the fight against child poverty should be a priority in national budgets.
for the verts/ale group thank you, chairman. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the question of the european union's member states' insurance policy against natural disasters the european solidarity fund. it shall ensure the union's ability to assist in the event of natural disasters. equally important, the proposal also includes measures to increase efficiency, and i do not think that the proposal to reserve an annual amount for this fund in the next year's budget of the european union will meet with much resistance. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the harmful trends that have emerged in the wake of the recent natural disasters. as you know, a draft resolution is currently before parliament calling for the deduction from the calculation of the government deficit of expenditure relating to the increase of resilience to one type of natural disaster - earthquakes - and only in a limited geographical area. so why are other types of natural disasters, such as floods, landslides and other regions, ignored? i think it's dangerous to do that. the risk is that member states will be able to pursue unstable fiscal policies alongside the assistance that the european solidarity fund can provide. it is not difficult to imagine what the precedent for public financial management and the stability and growth pact would mean, especially when the notion of enhancing seismic resilience is rather vague. i would like to stress that the european solidarity fund is an effective aid instrument, but the aid instrument must have a defined budget and specific objectives and, above all, it must not be allowed to justify the violation of the rules of good economic governance by some member states on the pretext of natural disasters.
in writing. – during the last year europe has seen a rise in racist, xenophobic and homophobic views in governments and among many citizens. hate crimes on the basis of sex, religion, and race have been increasing in numbers and little has been done to combat the situation. many european politicians and political campaigns have been spreading fear and intolerance through the minds of european citizens, enticing groups to attack people of other races or nationalities. these tendencies have been fuelled by such events as brexit. after the campaign against migrants and the nationalistic ideology of the brexit movement, a polish citizen was killed in the uk. cyber hate speech provides individuals with a shroud of secrecy that further prevents them from receiving any type of punishment. the european union has to respond to this situation. in june 2016 commissioner jourová announced the creation of a high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance; this is a vital step in the fight against this intolerance, but the fight must be pushed further. the fight has to span through the education sector and into the daily lives of our civil societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the communication on goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code. the relevant authorities in the member states have no legal basis under the current article 136 to apply the provisions specifically in the case of goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air on a direct route between two places within that territory without a stop outside the union. in the absence of a clear legal basis to require the presentation of these goods to the customs authorities, the effective exercise of their customs supervision duties is therefore impeded. i therefore agree that it is necessary to remedy this shortcoming and thus ensure a level playing field for goods and to restore the legal basis established by the previous customs code.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on amendments to the union customs code concerning goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the 2016 review of the union customs code, its implementation and the delegated acts have shown that the text of the regulation contains certain loopholes the relevant authorities in the member states do not have a legal basis to apply certain provisions under the current article 136. these provisions relate to lodging the entry summary declaration, notification of arrival of the seagoing vessel or aircraft, delivery and presentation of the goods to customs after unloading or transhipment, waiting for the authorisation to be issued before unloading or transhipment, and temporary storage. these amendments address the deficiencies in the union customs code mentioned above.
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal for a customs code creates a clearer legal basis for customs authorities to adjust import duties and other charges appropriately, to apply non-fiscal measures in cases where goods have been temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air, by a direct route between two places within that territory without a stop outside the union.
in writing. i agree with the report. the first priority is to close the existing loopholes and ensure effective enforcement of the regulation. it should be noted that the customs union is an exclusive competence of the eu and that the responsibility for the implementation of customs legislation lies primarily with the member states. at present, member states are facing certain difficulties in applying certain customs provisions. in order to ensure the effective exercise of customs supervision duties, the authorities concerned should be empowered to apply the provisions of the eu customs code more broadly and effectively to goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air.
in writing. ‒ we have succeeded in adopting a good piece of legislation to ensure that goods originating in an eu member state and bound for an eu member state are not subject to unnecessary administrative restrictions and taxation when they are transported through the territory of third countries. this has closed a legal loophole created by article 136 of the uniform customs code, which prevented member states from properly monitoring goods that have temporarily left the eu.
in writing. these provisions apply in particular where goods have been temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air by a direct route between two places within that territory without a stop outside the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the communication on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for retail investment product packages and insurance-based investment products, as regards the date of application. the purpose of the communication is to identify a range of measures to improve investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail investment market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the amendment of the key information document of the regulation on packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products. the commission has also adopted a new regulation on the protection of retail investors in retail and insurance-based investment products. it also aims to restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector after the financial crisis. in 2016, the commission endorsed the regulatory technical standards adopted by the esas by adopting a delegated regulation on the key information document, but the parliament rejected it. the european parliament and the vast majority of member states have asked the commission to postpone the date of application of the regulation, arguing that without technical standards it would be difficult to apply it smoothly. that is what this communication has done.
in writing. - i voted yes. the proposal aims to accelerate the date of entry into force of the regulation on packaged retail investment products and insurance-based investment products.
in writing. ‒ a small but important step towards better protection of consumer rights. the question on retail investment products and insurance investment products clarifies the content of the current regulation by specifying more clearly the information that the seller of the product must provide to the consumer. at the same time, parliament has shown its will as the representative of eu citizens in this matter and has asked the commission to submit a draft legislative act requiring the developers of such financial instruments to assess the profitability of financial instruments on the basis of more pessimistic, more realistic scenarios. after all, many financial institutions now have no choice but to paint a rosy future for the instruments they propose, and of course, accept no responsibility when the promised golden castle collapses.
in writing. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (5) lays down a series of measures aimed at improving investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector by enhancing transparency in the retail investment market. it requires providers of retail and insurance-based investment product packages to prepare a key information document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a draft agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i voted yes. this agreement will help to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa-free regime will make a significant contribution to bringing europeans and pacific islanders closer together.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with kiribati on visa facilitation is a welcome and necessary step. the agreement facilitates travel for both eu citizens and residents of kiribati. the question is not controversial, as the visa-free regime between the eu and kiribati has so far been without major disruptions that could present arguments against the extension and expansion of this agreement.
in writing. the visa-free regime agreement will have the potential to have a positive impact by simplifying travel for business people, facilitating investment and tourism. the visa-free regime will also contribute significantly to bringing europeans and pacific islanders closer together. the visa-free agreement not only allows citizens to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by making inexpensive and practical travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of a draft agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the solomon islands, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the solomon islands, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and solomon islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the aim of this agreement is to strengthen economic and cultural links and to encourage political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with the solomon islands on visa facilitation is a welcome and necessary step. the agreement facilitates travel for both eu citizens and solomon islands residents. the question is not controversial, as the visa-free regime between the eu and solomon islands has so far been smooth.
in writing. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and solomon islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the draft agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the signed agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the federated states of micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party and staying there for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the objective of this agreement is of major political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to foster political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with micronesia on visa facilitation is a welcome and necessary step. this agreement facilitates travel for both eu citizens and micronesian residents. the issue is not controversial, as the visa-free regime between the eu and micronesia has so far been without major disruptions that could present arguments against the extension and extension of this agreement.
in writing. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of a concrete effort to strengthen the relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia, and is of major political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to foster political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft agreement between the union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver on behalf of the union. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and tuvalu, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and tuvalu, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i voted yes. the state of tuvalu is a stable parliamentary and democratic system belonging to the commonwealth of nations. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of tuvalu for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement will have the potential to have a positive impact by simplifying travel for business people and facilitating investment and tourism. it will also help to promote direct contacts between eu and tuvaluan citizens.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with tuvalu on visa facilitation is a welcome and necessary step. this agreement facilitates travel for both eu citizens and tuvaluans. the question is indeed not controversial, since the visa-free regime between the eu and tuvalu has so far been without major disruptions that could present arguments against the extension and enlargement of this agreement.
in writing. the visa-free regime will make a significant contribution to bringing europeans and pacific islanders closer together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver, concluded on behalf of the european union. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i voted yes. this agreement, in the context of a short-term presence, is a concrete outcome of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, of major political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to foster political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with the marshall islands on visa facilitation is a welcome and necessary step. the agreement facilitates travel for both eu citizens and marshall islanders. the question is not controversial, as the visa-free regime between the eu and the marshall islands has so far been smooth.
in writing. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a concrete outcome of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, of major political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the european union solidarity fund. the report examines several stages in the management of the european union solidarity fund. the rapporteur draws attention to the speed of intervention of the essf, the need for a prevention policy to be pursued while ensuring the complementarity of the essf and other eu instruments, in particular cohesion policy. the importance of effective cooperation between national authorities and regional or local authorities was also stressed. i therefore agree that an effective response must be ensured at all decision-making levels in order to provide financial support to member states as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the european union solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund was set up in the european union following the tragic floods of 2002. it is intended to express the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters as a matter of urgency. the fund is open not only to member states but also to candidate countries. in 2014, the original regulation was amended to respond more effectively to the problems faced by beneficiaries, to take into account the requests of the affected parties more quickly and to include drought in its scope. however, parliament stresses that, despite the existence of a mechanism allowing for the advance payment to be obtained more quickly than under the normal procedure, beneficiaries still face problems with the length of the entire process from the submission of the application to the final payment of the aid.
in writing. ‒ the i voted yes. the european union solidarity fund was set up following the tragic floods of 2002. it is intended to express the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters as a matter of urgency. the fund is open not only to member states but also to candidate countries. in 2014, the original regulation was amended to respond more effectively to the problems faced by beneficiaries, to take into account the requests of the affected parties more quickly and to include drought in its scope. the european court of auditors has produced one report on the use of the essf since its establishment. this report highlights several possibilities for improving the management of the fund. these recommendations were taken into account in the 2014 revision of the essf. i therefore support the report's view that there is still room for improving transparency, in particular in the allocation of funds for compensation for damage caused by the disaster.
in writing. i agree with the report. it should be noted that the eu solidarity fund is a very important instrument for responding effectively to major natural disasters affecting member states. it is one of the most concrete and visible forms of support the eu can provide to local communities. when disaster strikes, it is important to provide immediate relief and help to the people affected. it is therefore essential to ensure that the fund operates efficiently, flexibly and is used for its intended purpose. it is necessary to establish a legal framework for the definition of the duration of the evaluation period. in addition, clear criteria for monitoring visits in beneficiary countries are needed to assess the implementation system in place and to verify the proper use of resources.
in writing. ‒ the today we are discussing the question of the european union member states' insurance policy against natural disasters the european solidarity fund. it shall ensure the union's ability to assist in the event of natural disasters. equally important, the proposal also provides for measures to increase operational efficiency. i do not think, therefore, that the proposal to reserve an annual amount for this fund in the eu budget for next year will meet with much resistance. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the harmful trends that have emerged in the wake of the recent natural disasters. as you know, a draft resolution is currently being discussed in parliament calling for the deduction from the calculation of the government deficit of expenditure on building up the resilience to one type of natural disaster - earthquakes. and only in a limited geographical area. so why are other types of natural disasters, such as floods, ignored? and the other regions? this is dangerous. the risk is that, alongside the assistance that the european solidarity fund can provide, member states will be able to pursue unstable fiscal policies that distort the provisions of the stability and growth pact. i would like to emphasise that the european solidarity fund is an effective aid instrument, but the aid instrument must have a defined budget and specific objectives. and, above all, we cannot allow some member states to use natural disasters as a pretext to justify breaches of the rules of good economic governance.
in writing. i welcome the recent so-called 'general proposal' which includes new provisions on simplification and easier mobilisation of funds.
in writing. ‒ the proposal notes that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16 tfeu) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) on the right to the protection of personal data and with article 47 on the right to an effective remedy. i agree that this is not the best deal on offer, but it is certainly the best deal in the current situation. the agreement also does not restrict or infringe the rights of natural persons, as it does not constitute the legal basis for the transfer of data. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted no. the proposal calls for the court of justice to clarify whether the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal data in relation to the prevention of crime is compatible with eu law. in the light of the opinion of the european parliament's legal experts, i conclude that the agreement does not conflict with eu law and that referral to the court would only unduly delay the cooperation process.
in writing. in view of the legal uncertainties at present, it is appropriate to request the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the provisions of the treaties of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. it is essential that the agreement ensures a fundamental right to a high level of protection of personal data and is appropriate for its implementation. the cooperation between the united states of america and the european union and its member states in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, shall be strengthened in accordance with the provisions of the treaties and in compliance with the principles of full data protection. it is also necessary to ensure that the provisions of the agreement are compatible with the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective legal remedy and to a fair trial. the examination of the case.
in writing. ‒ the question of how the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences is compatible with the provisions of the eu treaties, which is undoubtedly of such importance and has generated much debate, must also be assessed by the european court of justice. the european union has very high standards of personal data protection, which is not always the case in the us. we must therefore avoid any possibility of ambiguity.
in writing. i consider that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16 tfeu) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7 and 8 and article 52 (1)) on the right to the protection of personal data and with article 47 on the right to an effective remedy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. i support this agreement, which will set standards for the protection of all personal data, such as name, address or conviction, in the context of cooperation between eu and us law enforcement authorities in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data relating to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. the purpose of the agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the right to privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data when they are transferred for this purpose to the competent authorities of the european union, its member states and the united states.
in writing. - i voted yes. the purpose of the agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the right to privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data when they are transferred for this purpose to the competent authorities of the european union, its member states and the united states. this agreement complements the protection and safeguards of personal data and extends and harmonises the rights of data subjects. this agreement applies to the transfer of personal data by law enforcement authorities of the eu and its member states and of the united states for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism.
in writing. ‒ without a doubt, the question of how the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information in criminal investigations is compatible with the provisions of the eu treaties, which is so important and has generated so much debate, must be assessed in particular in terms of the standards of protection of personal data. these standards are very high in the european union, which is not always the case in the us. we must therefore avoid any possibility of ambiguity.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the draft recommendation on the conclusion of an interim economic partnership agreement between ghana and the european community and its member states. as more time is needed to sign the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa), ghana has decided to ratify its interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, which was concluded in 2007. however, ghana still has major unresolved problems of widespread corruption and child exploitation in the agricultural, forestry, fisheries and gold sectors. in view of this, i voted against this draft economic partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an interim economic partnership agreement between ghana and the european community and its member states. in august 2016, ghana (and subsequently the ivory coast) decided to ratify its interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, concluded in 2007, as more time was needed to sign the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa). this agreement provides for a contractual protection system that allows duty-free access to the eu market until the regional agreement is implemented. the interim agreement provides for provisional application and will be replaced by a comprehensive regional epa on the date of its entry into force.
in writing. - i voted yes. the eu is also a partner in many areas. although ghana derives most of its export revenues from the sale of gold, cocoa and crude oil, the eu has become the main destination for ghana's non-traditional exports, reflecting the country's increased diversification and added value. the ghanaian authorities have also provided the commission with information on the implementation of the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) and the implementation of the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp). this interim agreement will ensure ghana's 100% market access, which will ensure a long-term contractual relationship and the economic stability needed to generate new investment and jobs.
in writing. it is essential to ensure that the interim economic partnership agreement between ghana and the european community and its member states duly safeguards the legitimate interests of both parties. in order to strengthen trade and development policy instruments, it is important to respect the eu's core values, to ensure the stability needed to attract new investment and jobs and to ensure that the eu's external policies are consistent with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in addition, to avoid disruption of trade in ghana, it is necessary to apply protection to the the commission has also been working closely with the european parliament and the council to ensure that the eu's food aid programmes are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the union's food aid policy. you're going to die.
in writing. ‒ trade is the best engine of economic development. effective trade relations provide opportunities for the sustainable development of a country and are therefore a more effective instrument of development assistance than development cooperation. i therefore welcome and support the recommendation discussed today on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an interim economic partnership agreement between the european community and its member states and ghana. by expanding trade links, sometimes through asymmetric preferential measures, we will help to build a cohesive african economy, thus enhancing both our prosperity and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the contingency reserve in 2016. the commission has proposed to mobilise in 2016 eur 240,1 million from the contingency margin to supplement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in line 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. in conjunction with draft amending budget no 4/2016, the commission proposed to mobilise in 2016 eur 240,1 million from the contingency margin to supplement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in category 3 (security and citizenship) of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal provides for the mobilisation of the contingency reserve to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crises.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this technical budget amendment, which concerns the reallocation of contingency funds to relevant objectives such as border protection.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report draft amending budget no 4 for the general budget 2016. renewal of allocations to take account of recent developments in migration and security issues, reduction of payment and commitment appropriations due to the general transfer, extension of the esif, change of the frontex establishment plan and renewal of revenue allocations (own resources). i agree to increase the appropriations for expenditure category 3 by mobilising the contingency reserve and to early allocation of the increased amount of funds to the frontex staff establishment plan. in addition, i welcome the partial replenishment of the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), but i am still concerned that, despite the high level of budget implementation, very few refugees have actually been relocated so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the council's position on amending budget no 4/2016. it shall update the appropriations to take account of recent developments in migration and security issues, the reduction in payment and commitment appropriations due to the general transfer, the extension of the esif, the change in the establishment plan of frontex and the update of the revenue appropriations (own resources).
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal provides for additional funding for measures addressing migration, refugees and security crises.
in writing. ‒ i support this technical budget amendment to deal with the migration and refugee crisis by redistributing the funds needed to cope with the declining flows of asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2016. implementation of own resources after the ratification process has been completed and the decision has entered into force on 1 october 2016. the objective of draft amending budget no 5 is to incorporate in the revenue of the union budget for 2016 the impact of the adjustment of own resources relating to the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which applies retroactively to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the council's position on amending budget no 5/2016. the objective of draft amending budget no 5/2016 is to incorporate in the revenue of the union budget for 2016 the impact of the adjustment of own resources relating to the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which applies retroactively to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. draft amending budget no 5/2016 requires an adjustment of the individual contributions of all member states, but does not affect the overall budget of the union in terms of revenue and expenditure.
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal adjusts the individual contributions of the member states to the corrective budget packages, but in principle does not affect the overall revenue and expenditure of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of these technical amendments to the eu budget. the entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu has reduced certain costs of the eu in collecting own resources and even the contributions to the union budget by some member states. this also affected the individual budget lines but not the size of the budget itself.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european union solidarity fund to provide aid to germany. purpose of the notification to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance to germany following the disaster in may and june 2016 (floods in lower bavaria, in particular in the district of rotha an der inn). i support the commission's proposal to apply a direct injury coefficient of 2,5% of the total to the full injury up to the major injury threshold. the total amount of the proposed aid is eur 31 475 125.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance to germany following the disaster of may and june 2016 (floods in lower bavaria, in particular in the district of roto an der inn). several very large flash floods and flash floods have occurred, destroying public and private infrastructure as well as private homes and damaging the agricultural sector. in lower bavaria, seven people were killed, more than 47 000 people were affected and two months after the floods, 2 000 people were still unable to return to their homes. the town of ino, in zimbabwe, was almost completely destroyed and had no municipal water service for three weeks. in addition, very significant damage to businesses and agriculture, major infrastructure, water, sewerage and electricity networks was reported. the affected region is classified as a more developed region under the provisions of the european structural and investment funds (2014-2020).
in writing. - i voted yes. the objective of the eu solidarity fund is to enable the union to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to disasters by showing solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters. it is proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance to germany to help it recover from the damage caused by the very severe flash floods in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal to use the solidarity fund for germany. the principle of solidarity requires that this instrument be open to all those who need eu support in an emergency, regardless of whether the country is a donor or a recipient.
in writing. several very large flash floods have occurred, destroying public and private infrastructure as well as private homes and damaging the agricultural sector. in lower bavaria, seven people were killed, more than 47 000 people were affected and two months after the floods, 2 000 people were still unable to return to their homes. the town of ino, in zimbabwe, was almost completely destroyed and had no municipal water service for three weeks. in addition, very significant damage to businesses and agriculture, major infrastructure, water, sewerage and electricity networks was reported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 6 of the european union for the financial year 2016, accompanied by the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. draft amending budget no 6 includes the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016, and the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase budget line no 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster, when living conditions, the natural environment or the economy are seriously affected' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines draft amending budget no 6/2016 including the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget to increase the budgetary resources for 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster, when living conditions, the natural environment or the economy are seriously affected'. as defined in the regulation on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, the european union solidarity fund is a special instrument and the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations are to be entered in the budget above the mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal to use the solidarity fund for germany. the principle of solidarity requires that this instrument be open to all those who need eu support in an emergency, regardless of whether the country is a donor or a recipient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the contingency reserve in 2017. in 2017, additional financial needs are likely to arise in relation to internal security crises and current humanitarian, migration and refugee problems. the commission therefore proposed in its draft budget to mobilise eur 1 164,4 million from the contingency margin to supplement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in line 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, exceeding the ceiling of eur 2 578 million in current prices for commitment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the decision to mobilise the contingency reserve. the european parliament welcomes the commission's proposals to add to the 2018-2020 period a category of expenditure relating to internal security crises and current humanitarian, migration and refugee problems in the context of the mid-term adjustment of the multiannual financial framework (mff). this is to provide sufficient resources for the justice and home affairs agencies and to take account of the commission's recent proposals in the area of security and migration. parliament also recalls the urgent need to respond to security crises, migration and refugee problems and considers it important that all actors concerned ensure full transparency of payments and regular monitoring and reporting of expenditure. it regrets that the commission did not take advantage of the mid-term revision of the mff to adjust the ceiling accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i support this technical budget amendment, which relates to the reallocation of the contingency funds in line with the expected challenges for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance urgent budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. after examining all possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations to expenditure category 3, it appeared necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations. as the 2017 ceilings for category 3 do not allow adequate financing of urgent measures in the areas of migration, refugees and security, i agree to mobilise eur 530 million of commitment appropriations under the flexibility instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which outlines the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance urgent budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. the european parliament acknowledges that the financial impact of the current security crises and humanitarian and migration problems was not taken into account in the adoption of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) in 2013. it also recalls that the flexibility measure must be used to finance clearly defined costs which cannot be covered within the limits of the ceilings of one or more categories of costs. parliament regrets that the commission did not use the mid-term revision of the mff to adjust the ceiling for the category of expenditure relating to migration, refugees and security crises accordingly. parliament therefore supports the commission's proposal for the mid-term adjustment of the mff, which aims to increase the budgetary capacity to react quickly and appropriately to unforeseen events.
in writing. ‒ i support this forward-looking budgetary amendment to the redistribution of funds for managing the migrant and refugee crisis, which is necessary because of the possible changes in asylum seekers' flows next year.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the communication on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide the union's general budget for 2017 with funds for the payment of advances. article 4a (4) of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 provides that, in order to ensure that budgetary resources are received in a timely manner, the fund may be mobilised to pay advances of up to eur 50 000 000, the corresponding appropriations being entered in the general budget of the union. in order to ensure that the budgetary resources for the general budget of the union for 2017 are sufficient in a timely manner, an amount of eur 50 000 000 from the fund should therefore be mobilised for the payment of advances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the objective of the european union solidarity fund (essf) to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the regions of europe affected by disasters. the fund shall be capable of providing financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union in the event of a major natural disaster, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by that disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. it may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. it should be noted that the advance may be granted at the request of a member state and after a preliminary assessment by the commission of the relevant essf application. the amount of the advance should not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial support provided and should not exceed eur 30 million. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the essf and the european commission shall recover the amounts of the advance wrongly paid to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to allow for the timely payment of the advances from the 2017 general budget of the union. we cannot allow beneficiaries (many of whom are municipalities, other public authorities) to go into debt to implement eu-funded projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the allocation of the budget for 2017. in total they allocated eur 157.86 billion for commitments. this sum has increased by almost eur 3 billion from the 2016 commitments. the budget also leaves eur 1.1 billion in order to be able to react to unforeseen events. the passage of this budget is extremely vital for the upcoming year. there is about 11.3% more money since 2016 dedicated to dealing with the migration and refugee crisis. the new budget also focuses on growth of the economy and youth prosperity. the erasmus+ has been increased by 19%, [and this,] paralleled with an increase in funds to create new jobs, will boost economic growth. youth is also aided in the employment sector by an additional eur 500 million to help find jobs for young people. the budget also opens the doors for the commission to be able to start their initiative that would let young people travel around europe with ease. all in all the budget not only faces the current issues such as the refugee crisis, but it also looks into the future, both economically, socially, and culturally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, which was adopted by the conciliation committee in the course of the budgetary procedure. the project has provided more funding for youth employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, transport infrastructure, research, as well as the erasmus+ student exchange programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the 2017 budgetary procedure (draft general budget). the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the pilot project to include the following areas: where an existing legal basis applies to a pilot project or preparatory action, the commission may propose to transfer appropriations to the appropriate legal basis in order to facilitate the implementation of that action. this package fully respects the ceilings for pilot projects and preparatory actions set out in the financial regulation.
in writing. - i voted yes. the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 is hereby approved.
in writing. i approve the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, as presented, which focuses on economic growth, job creation, especially for young people, and the management of the migration crisis. it is welcome that in the negotiations with the eu, the council has managed to secure increased funding for key areas, in particular youth employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, transport infrastructure, research, as well as the erasmus+ student exchange programme. given the importance and benefits of the youth employment initiative, it is essential that it be appropriately and sufficiently funded. i therefore believe that an additional eur 500 million will help to implement it effectively in all member states. particular attention should be paid to research, which is crucial for the development of innovation, and to the european infrastructure networks facility, as a tool to attract investment. the additional funds will help to rebuild the budget cuts for these measures and will increase investment opportunities for small businesses, as well as provide greater support for local communities, researchers and students.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget for next year does not quite meet our expectations and wishes. on the other hand, i understand that the draft budget under discussion is the result of many compromises, and i therefore vote in favour of it, and i hope that the other eu institutions will do their utmost to ensure that the support from this budget reaches its addressees as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes. in 2016, a very large earthquake shook central italy and three other large earthquakes of the same magnitude shook regions of central italy. more than 400 people have been injured and 290 killed and 100,000 people may be displaced as a result of the possible indirect consequences. in view of the situation, i agree with the european parliament that this problem must be tackled swiftly and effectively in order to provide homeless people with adequate living conditions and other necessary assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its deepest solidarity and condolences to all the victims of the earthquakes and their families, as well as to the national, regional and local authorities in italy who are trying to provide assistance in the aftermath of the disaster. parliament expressed concern at the high number of displaced persons living in extremely harsh weather conditions in the run-up to the winter season and called on the commission to identify all possible ways of assisting the italian authorities in ensuring that all people who had lost their homes had adequate living conditions. parliament stressed the importance of synergistically integrating all available instruments, including the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), and ensuring that resources were effectively used for reconstruction and all other necessary actions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities. it also calls on the commission to be ready to adopt the appropriate amendments to programmes and operational programmes as soon as possible after receiving a request for amendments from a member state. parliament also stressed the possibility of using the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) to support rural areas and agricultural activities affected by earthquakes.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution expresses solidarity with all the victims of the earthquakes in italy and their families. it also stresses the importance of synergistically integrating all available instruments, including the european structural and investment (esi) funds, and ensuring that the financial support provided is effectively used to support reconstruction and all other necessary actions.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. the recent earthquakes in italy have created an exceptional and very serious situation which needs to be addressed immediately and effectively. in particular, prevention should be an increasingly important stage in disaster management and should be given greater social importance. it is necessary to strengthen disaster prevention measures and to carry out the necessary scientific research in order to prevent adverse effects, manage crises and minimise the impact of disasters. the commission should consider offering the italian authorities all the assistance they need to ensure adequate living conditions for homeless people. in this context, the eu solidarity fund has a special role to play, as it must be a reliable and flexible instrument for demonstrating solidarity and providing adequate and rapid assistance to those affected by major natural disasters. in this context, i believe that the extension of the existing methods for calculating the solidarity fund should be considered. moreover, the commission should exclude investments in material recovery and earthquake-resistant construction when calculating the national deficit under the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ the it is good to see that things are getting better in italy. the resolution under discussion today contains many important provisions, including a proposal to pay greater attention to both building seismic resistance and building supervision. the eu has also contributed to this end by providing for a temporary derogation from the methodology for calculating the budget deficit. at the same time, i would point out that the attempt by some italian politicians to enshrine provisions that these exemptions should remain permanent and that member states' expenditure on building seismic resistance should be excluded from the budget deficit calculation is likely to have the opposite effect: most of this expenditure will not reach its intended recipients and confidence in the eu's financial discipline policy will be completely undermined.
in writing. i draw attention to the predictability problems associated with earthquake systems and to the high seismic activity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for declarations of interests by members of the commission. annex xvi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the 'guidelines for the approval of the commission', provides that 'parliament may request any information necessary to enable it to take a decision on the suitability of the commissioners-designate. it expects to be disclosed all information relating to their financial interests. declarations of interests by the members of the commission appointed shall be referred to the committee responsible for legal affairs. unfortunately, that provision does not define precisely the scope of the inquiry by the committee on legal affairs, in particular as regards the question whether that inquiry should be limited to a formal examination of the information provided or, on the contrary, to an in-depth inquiry. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to define the scope of the examination of declarations of interests by the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the guidelines for declarations of interests by members of the commission. the european parliament proposes to define the scope of the examination of declarations of interests by the committee on legal affairs. this should include, in particular, the european parliament's internal procedures for the appointment of the new commission and its term of office and the transparency requirements for the members of the commission. the parliament considers that the verification of the absence of a conflict of interest cannot be equated with the assessment of the competence of a candidate and must therefore be a necessary precondition for the hearing. it also considers that the concept of conflict of interest must cover only objective and verifiable factors which can only be assessed in the light of a specific area of responsibility. parliament therefore concludes that the committee on legal affairs must both assess the possibility of a conflict of interest and, if necessary, recommend how to eliminate it. it may be recommended to waive certain financial interests or to change the area of responsibility of a commissioner. in order to ensure the effectiveness of the inquiry, the rapporteur considers that the committee on legal affairs should request additional information if the declaration raises doubts, is incomplete or contradictory.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european parliament's recommendation on guidelines for declarations of interests of commissioners aims to ensure an open, fair and consistent evaluation of all commissioners-designate and to prevent potential conflicts of interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in order to ensure the independence and integrity of the members of the commission, it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of the application of declarations of interests. the commission should amend the code of conduct and declarations of interests of its members and ensure that sufficient information is included therein. in order to increase public confidence in the eu institutions, the verification of declarations of interests must be a necessary precondition for a hearing. it is necessary to strengthen the role of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament and to define the scope of the examination of declarations of interests. furthermore, the concept of conflict of interest should cover only objective and verifiable factors which can be assessed in the light of a specific area of responsibility. it is of particular importance that the restrictions on the recruitment of commissioners after their term of office be extended for a period of at least three years, which should not be less than the period during which former members of the commission are entitled to a transitional allowance.
in writing. ‒ as the example of the former president of the commission shows, not all commissioners are inclined to declare their interests honestly or to comply with the requirements of fair dealing. sadly, it seems that this club of dubious reputation has recently been joined by another former commissioner who has moved to the world bank an institution which, according to media reports, has recently secured significantly increased eu funding flows. we must therefore seek to regulate more effectively the activities of the eu's most highly paid officials - the members of the commission. and, of course, the application of higher moral standards would also be a welcome recommendation to the member states nominating the members of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on liability and compensation for offshore oil and gas operations and their financial security. following the deepwater horizon oil spill in april 2010, the maritime safety directive was adopted to set minimum requirements for the prevention of major accidents in the eu's oil and gas operations and to limit the consequences of such accidents. i therefore support the rapporteur's claim that the commission must work more closely with the member states to ensure that the appropriate legal framework governing any activity at sea is in place before a serious accident occurs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with liability and compensation for offshore oil and gas operations and their financial security. the european parliament stresses that the effective application of the polluter pays principle to offshore oil and gas operations should cover not only the prevention and remediation of environmental damage, as is currently done to some extent under the safety at sea and environmental liability directives, but also the costs associated with meeting the requirements for compensation for traditional damage, as provided for under the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development. parliament therefore calls on the commission to consider the possibility of creating a legislative mechanism for compensation for damage caused by accidents at sea similar to that provided for in the norwegian act on oil-related activities and applicable at least to those sectors which may suffer significant negative impacts, such as fisheries, coastal tourism and other sectors of the blue economy. in this context, it recommends that the problems or accidents encountered by companies in the course of their activities be assessed from a quantitative and qualitative point of view and that any secondary effects on the parties concerned be identified. also underlines the differences and shortcomings in the transposition and application of the environmental liability provisions of the environmental liability directive, as also pointed out by the commission in its second implementation report.
in writing. - i voted yes. in its resolution on liability and compensation for oil and gas operations at sea and their financial security, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to develop additional measures to ensure the safety of oil and gas operations at sea more effectively in the event of a major disaster. for example, the directive currently in force does not provide for civil liability for damage to natural or legal persons, nor for criminal liability for accidents at sea, possible fines and other non-custodial penalties. although safety at sea offences are covered by the criminal code in many countries, there is no harmonised definition of the offence, nor is there any harmonised definition of the minimum nature and level of sanctions at eu level. the introduction of criminal liability at eu level could become another deterrent, which does not include civil liability, and thus could ensure better environmental protection and compliance with safety measures.
in writing. in particular, civil and criminal liability for damage caused by accidents arising from offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production must be established at eu level. in addition, a balanced decision on the mandatory financial guarantee and a uniform and comprehensive compensation mechanism must be adopted. it is necessary to provide for compensation for claims by third parties for traditional damage, as well as for an effective compensation mechanism to administer the relevant payments. the parties responsible must be obliged to pay, in a timely and appropriate manner, the compensation which they are legally entitled to for damage and losses suffered by natural or legal persons and for damage caused to the environment. it is important to ensure that operators or other responsible parties have sufficient financial resources to meet claims for compensation. in order to implement the envisaged measures, the commission should cooperate more closely with the member states and ensure that the compensation and financial security systems applicable to offshore oil and gas operations in the eu are developed and implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the issue of liability for accidents at sea related to hydrocarbon extraction is quite complex and, in my opinion, not sufficiently regulated. i therefore welcome this initiative to extend the existing legal framework while making it clearer.
in writing. ‒ the drc is a country that has one of the biggest potentials in africa, it has potential for a strong economy and it has the potential for nurturing democracy. but the country has been torn apart by conflict throughout the years, many ethnic minorities, homosexuals, and women are being mistreated and even persecuted. the current president joseph kabila’s term in office is coming to an end and this can mark a turning point in the dcr’s future. the european union is encouraging joseph kabila to step down as president at the end of his second term and ensure a peaceful transition of power to the next presidency. this whole process has to take place in line with congo’s constitution. kabila has been in power ever since in 2001 his father was assassinated, he then was elected president in 2006 and is now reaching the end of his second term in office. if the drc wants to prove that it is embracing democracy and that it is ready to become a full and valuable partner to europe, it has to ensure a peaceful transition of power, but this lies in the hands of a single person – kabila.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. the european parliament is deeply concerned at the growing instability in the democratic republic of congo due to the tense pre-election situation. the increasing violence and the increasing violations of human rights and international law, in particular targeted actions and arbitrary arrests, are adversely affecting efforts to regulate and stabilise the situation in the drc. in this context, i support the european parliament's call for the eu delegation to continue to closely monitor developments in the drc and to take all appropriate actions and measures to support human rights defenders and democratic movements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. parliament regrets that the government and the independent national electoral commission (inec) have failed to hold the presidential elections within the constitutionally stipulated deadline. it therefore reiterates its call for the successful and timely holding of elections in full compliance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance, and urges the congolese government to ensure as soon as possible an enabling environment for transparent, credible and inclusive elections. parliament also called on all political actors to engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue to prevent the current political crisis from deepening and to refrain from further violence and provocations. it welcomes the efforts of the national conference of congolese bishops (cenco) to develop a broader consensus on the political transition process. parliament called on the authorities and the opposition to refrain from any action or statement that could further contribute to the spread of unrest, while recognising the need for a transitional period during which the presidency could only be exercised under the supervision of the transitional council, in which the opposition would play a prominent role. parliament also called on the eu and its member states to continue to assist the congolese people in order to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups and to address the problems of displacement, food supply and the consequences of natural disasters.
in writing. - i voted yes. in its resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo, the european parliament expressed concern at the restrictions on human rights, freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration, and the disproportionate use of force against peaceful protesters, journalists, political leaders and other persons. the situation has recently deteriorated with the upcoming presidential elections and the efforts of the incumbent president to postpone the elections and remain in power beyond the constitutional term. in the resolution, parliament calls on the eu to respond more urgently to the unrest, to take concrete action and to launch the article 96 procedure without delay, and to adopt targeted sanctions, including visa bans and asset freezes, against senior officials and members of the armed forces responsible for the violent suppression of demonstrations and the political impasse that is hampering the peaceful and constitutional transfer of power.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. it is noted that the situation in the democratic republic of the congo continues to deteriorate, with an increase in violence and a number of violations of human rights and international law. it is therefore necessary to take immediate action to end impunity, violence, sexual violence and the plundering of valuable resources. it is worth noting that the tense pre-election situation has led to increasing instability. the drc authorities are therefore required to immediately and properly discharge their duty to conduct, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, a successful and timely election that is transparent, credible and inclusive. in addition, administrative and technical means must be prevented in order to postpone elections and maintain power beyond the constitutional term of office.
in writing. - the situation in congo is a matter of concern to the free world. the ongoing conflict, human rights abuses, the waves of migrants - all of this is not only creating a humanitarian catastrophe, but also a threat to european security. we need to act now. the main lines of action and objectives are set out in great detail in this resolution drawn up by our colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on access to energy resources in developing countries. 1.2 billion people lack access to electricity, and for many more, access is unreliable. also, half of the people without access to electricity live in africa, and this number is growing because the continent's population is growing faster than its access to energy resources. i therefore support the objective of improving access to energy resources, which accelerate development. it is also necessary to take account of the scale and impact of energy poverty in developing countries and the eu's active involvement in efforts to reduce this poverty.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on access to energy resources in developing countries. the european parliament stresses that energy and potential security problems are closely linked and considers that energy governance, although difficult to implement, is essential for the economic and human development of developing countries. parliament supported the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy resources to an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 through programme elements such as the creation of a technical assistance facility, the pooling of eu experts to expand technical knowledge in developing countries and the promotion of capacity building and technology transfer. it also highlights the role of energy as a driver in many other areas such as health, education, clean water, agriculture, as well as telecommunications and internet connectivity. parliament calls on the commission to report regularly on its website on the progress made towards the 'energy for development' objective of its initiative and to clarify the share of total energy financing in developing countries allocated to renewable energy, remote regions, staff training, local practical experience and skills, local and off-grid solutions.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries highlights the many problems that still leave 1.2 billion people without access to electricity. despite having the greatest renewable energy potential on the planet, africa is also the continent that is lagging behind in terms of electrification. in this context, the european parliament calls on the eu and its member states to provide support and technical assistance for projects such as the african clean energy corridor initiative action plan, which aims to meet half of all electricity demand by 2030 from clean, locally produced, cost-effective renewable energy sources, thus reducing carbon emissions. the european parliament also calls on funding bodies, the private sector and governments of developing countries to work closely together to accelerate the achievement of these objectives.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. first, there is a need to ensure better access to energy resources. only by joint efforts can energy scarcity be effectively tackled and human basic needs and human rights be met. it should be noted that energy scarcity is a global problem, affecting 11% of the eu population. access to energy resources should therefore be a key and strategic policy area for each member state and the eu as a whole. it is essential to remove all obstacles to energy development as soon as possible. it is essential to ensure that all relevant projects are implemented in a transparent manner, with due regard to their potential impact on local populations, indigenous peoples and tribes.
in writing. ‒ electricity is the engine of the modern world. ensuring access to energy should therefore become one of the main objectives of development cooperation and, in general, of any development. and that's where the huge potential of renewable energy is.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. this procedure will make it easy for creditors to seek an order for the recovery of uncontested civil and commercial claims. moreover, this procedure can be requested in writing or, in some cases, by electronic means, and does not require the assistance of a lawyer, and is mandatory in another member state and does not require any additional formalities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the application of the european order for payment procedure. the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of sums in cross-border judicial proceedings. this procedure is optional: this means that it can be used as an alternative to the various national procedures applicable in cross-border cases. in simple terms, this procedure will make it easy for creditors to seek an order to recover uncontested civil and commercial claims. this procedure can be requested in writing or, in some cases, by electronic means and does not require the assistance of a lawyer, and is carried out in another member state without any additional formalities. the european order for payment shall be issued automatically on the basis of a request only, but the debtor may lodge an objection within 30 days. in the event of such an objection, the order procedure shall be terminated and a competitive judicial procedure may be initiated.
in writing. i agree with the report. in particular, the european order for payment procedure should be extended to the eu as a whole, as it allows for the settlement of debts owed by persons established in the member states of the european union in a cheap and expeditious manner. it should be noted that the european order for payment procedure is currently applied differently in different member states. this complicates and prolongs the process of dealing with monetary claims of an international nature and creates additional financial and administrative burdens. the commission has a special role to play in ensuring the effective implementation of this procedure in the eu. it shall provide timely and detailed implementation reports and take concrete steps to further inform all stakeholders. in addition, the european order for payment procedure should be made faster and more flexible in order to be applied effectively.
in writing. ‒ the european payment order is an important financial instrument, an attribute of the eu's single financial area. ensuring its functioning is therefore a necessary condition for the functioning of the single market.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european order for payment procedure a procedure in civil and commercial matters relating to outstanding claims, the main objective of which is to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors' rights in the eu is operating successfully in all member states.
i think the clean energy package is a good document. i hope it will be properly implemented. the incentives for building renovation can indeed significantly reduce energy consumption and renovation should be one of the main pillars of these measures. secondly, the european union must speak with one voice on energy security for each individual member state of the community. the same applies to the safety of nuclear power generation. in this collection, i have devoted appropriate attention to the issue of the construction of a nuclear power plant in belarus, next to the external borders of the european union. it seems that the elementary truth that a single radioactive cloud can bury all the clean energy toolkits and the entire energy strategy of the european union should not be forgotten. in view of the worrying reports on the construction site in astrava, it is this plant that should be the subject of much greater international attention on safety. third, the cost of energy to households. in some countries of the community, people are forced to give up nearly a third of their income to buy energy. energy has become a monopoly. their prices impoverish consumers in the community. it is from these that energy companies derive huge profits from unfair taxation.
i join in the congratulations to the commission on presenting an ambitious document, for the first time we have a fully integrated plan that has used digital technologies and innovation to create a modern, efficient and responsive energy market. the historic agreement on climate change reached in paris means we must be leaders in this area and continue to take the lead. renewable and clean energy is one of the most cost-effective ways to do so in the long term. there are too many untapped opportunities in the renovation of buildings and the commission's proposals will speed up this process and ensure much more efficient energy savings and a transition to a low-carbon economy. this will also reduce energy bills, which are of particular concern to the most vulnerable consumers. it is important that the creation of the energy union contributes to the reduction of energy poverty, which will bring real benefits to our consumers and businesses in the long term.
in writing. i congratulate the commission on the completion of a comprehensive energy package aimed at implementing a competitive, sustainable, citizen-centred eu energy policy. this is one of the most important legislative proposals of this term, which will have an impact not only on the energy sector but also on european industry as a whole and its competitiveness. the commission's main priorities are well-named: energy efficiency, leadership in the development of renewable energy sources, promotion of the consumer as an active and key player in the energy market. however, as i have said on many occasions, a properly connected grid and an efficient internal energy market are the cornerstones of the energy union, without which we will not be able to maximise the benefits of renewable energy and ensure affordable prices for consumers. i am also pleased that the commission has also drawn attention to cybersecurity in the electricity market. i think as we're developing more and more smart grids, ensuring their security is of utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft european parliament legislative resolution on the eu-algeria framework agreement establishing the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in european union programmes. i voted in favour of the draft resolution, in favour of the main provision on the conclusion of the protocol. these positions have been taken in accordance with the council's request for assent, the recommendation of the foreign affairs committee and the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the eu and the people's republic of algeria laying down the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria laying down the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. having regard to the request for assent submitted by the council, i give my consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of algeria laying down the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in union programmes. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) gradually opens up the possibility for partner countries to participate in certain union programmes and agencies, as one of a number of measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood. this policy aspect was further defined by the commission in its communication of december 2006 on the common position on the opening up of the participation of the esf partner countries in community agencies and community programmes. the council endorsed this approach in its conclusions of 5 march 2007. on the basis of that communication and its conclusions, the council instructed the commission on 18 june 2007 to open negotiations with algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, moldova, morocco, the palestinian authority, tunisia and ukraine on framework agreements setting out the general principles for participation in community programmes. in february 2013, algeria expressed its willingness to participate in the various programmes open to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. at the same time, the commission shall submit a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol. this protocol shall be concluded by a framework agreement laying down the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the framework agreement sets out the standard conditions that should apply to all partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy with which such protocols will be concluded.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the european parliament resolution on the eu-algeria framework agreement establishing the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which lays down the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in union programmes. this agreement is a continuation of the european neighbourhood policy, which is based on the principle of mutual benefit. on the one hand, the european union is gradually opening up algeria's participation in eu programmes, but on the other hand this is only possible through internal reforms and thus a secure neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendment by the group for a europe of freedom and direct democracy proposing to reject the council's position submitted to parliament. the amendment was rejected by a majority, with the council's position adopted without a separate vote. i support the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on deep-sea fish stocks and their fisheries in international waters of the north-east atlantic, noting the following positive aspects: the european union will freeze the fishing impact indicator in the areas where deep-sea fishing will be allowed. this geographical restriction will apply to deep-sea fishing vessels and specific sanctions will be introduced for vessels that infringe the deep-sea fisheries regulation. the report also includes new, stricter transparency rules, including an obligation to make public information on european vessels fishing for deep-sea fish and to record all catches, i.e. fish and vulnerable ecosystems. member states will also have to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems (impact assessment) and the european commission will evaluate this data annually and then adjust the fishing zone accordingly. i voted in favour of the provisions aimed at improving the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on deep-sea fish stocks and fisheries in international waters of the north-east atlantic. we must strive for success in the fisheries sector. i agree that continuous assessment, appropriate sanctions and transparency are necessary to protect fisheries activities in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on deep-sea fish stocks and their fisheries in the international waters of the north-east atlantic. the text of the agreement was put to the vote in the committee on fisheries on 12 july 2016 and approved by a large majority. since the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached at the tripartite dialogue meetings, the rapporteur of the european parliament proposes that the committee endorse it without further amendments. the main aspects of this compromise would be that the european union would freeze the fishing impact indicator when setting the zones where deep-sea fishing would be allowed. this zone covers the area where targeted fishing took place in 2009-2011 in the north-east atlantic waters of europe. this geographical limitation will apply to deep-sea fishing vessels, i.e. those vessels whose deep-sea catch exceeds 8% of their total catch on at least one fishing trip per year. the european parliament also succeeded in introducing specific sanctions for vessels that infringe the deep sea fisheries regulation and in ensuring that a number of control rules are not subject to any exemption. parliament and council negotiators agreed to set a bathymetric limit of 800 m. the new provision aims to improve the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed.
in writing. ‒ i support the council's position on deep-sea fish stocks and their fisheries in the international waters of the north-east atlantic, as presented to parliament. the council proposal establishes the zones in which deep-sea fishing will be allowed. this geographical restriction will apply to vessels fishing for deep-sea fisheries. specific sanctions will be introduced for vessels that infringe the deep sea fisheries regulation. i hope that these amendments will lead to better protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation. the text of the agreement was put to the vote in the committee on fisheries on 12 july 2016 and approved by a large majority. the agreement reflects several important aspects. it is agreed that a bathymetric limit of 800 m will be established. the new provision aims to improve the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed. it was also agreed that deep-sea fishing vessels would have to cease operations and move at least 5 nautical miles from the fishing zone of the ecosystem when they reach a depth of more than 400 metres and have touched a vulnerable marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading, as it concerns serious regulation of deep-sea fisheries, without which the protection of endangered species would be limited. parliament introduced new, stricter transparency rules, including the need to provide information to the public on european vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing and the need to record all fishing incidents (affecting fish stocks and ecosystems). member states will also be required to provide information on the state of vulnerable ecosystems (impact assessment) and the commission will have to evaluate this data annually. it is the right decision, worthy of approval.
in writing. parliament introduced new, stricter transparency rules, including an obligation to make public information on european vessels fishing for deep-sea fish and to record all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems). member states will also have to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems (impact assessment) and the european commission will evaluate this data annually and then adjust the fishing zone accordingly (by means of implementing acts).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on the revision of the general rules of procedure of the european parliament. the european parliament has regularly revised its rules of procedure, often after new treaties were adopted increasing parliament's powers. in the present case, the rules are being reorganised mainly for internal reasons: to make parliament more efficient, to clarify the rules, to improve transparency, to protect parliament from political forces seeking to sabotage its work and from possible disruptions. only a few changes were made as a result of wider changes, such as the 2006 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making or the creation of new bodies in the context of the banking union. the commission has also made a number of amendments based on the 2015 corbett report on the commission's hearing procedures and practices. i support this comprehensive revision of the rules, while stressing that it was prepared by a working group that brought all stakeholders into the discussion, which met regularly for one and a half years and reached agreement on many points.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure. the european parliament has regularly revised its rules of procedure, often following the adoption of new treaties that increased the powers of the european parliament. however, in the present case, the rules have been reorganised mainly for internal reasons: to make parliament more efficient, to clarify the rules, to improve transparency, to protect parliament from interference by political forces seeking to sabotage its work. the bulk of the work is technical, legal and linguistic, and it improves the details of the rules. however, there are a number of amendments of wider significance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the european parliament has regularly revised its rules of procedure, often following the adoption of new treaties that increased the powers of the european parliament. in the present case, the rules are being reorganised mainly for internal reasons, such as to make parliament more efficient, clarify the rules, improve transparency, protect parliament from interference by political forces seeking to sabotage its work. only a few changes were made as a result of wider changes, such as the 2006 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making or the creation of new bodies in the context of the banking union. the bulk of the work is technical, legal and linguistic, and it improves the details of the rules.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the parliament's rules of procedure has been the subject of a working group of representatives of the various political groups for over a year. over 700 proposals were made to amend and improve parliament's working procedures. the bulk of the work is technical, legal and linguistic, and it improves the details of the rules. however, there are a number of amendments of wider significance on which not all political groups have been able to reach agreement. the main changes concern procedural matters, the election of the parliament, the president of the commission, the appointment of meps to committees, the setting of voting thresholds, and so on. even if the amendments are adopted, it is unlikely that all the bureaucratic, administrative and political differences on procedural issues in the ep will be resolved, but it is to be hoped that this step will still help the parliament to work more transparently and smoothly than before.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it was clear that the european parliament's internal rules needed to be changed. the amendments bring more transparency, for example by introducing an obligation for members to declare other income in more detail. the procedure for submitting parliamentary questions has also been changed. at present, each member of parliament can assign five per month. under the new arrangements, 20 will be available over a period of three months. more openness introduced in the voting on the presidency of the commission it will be open, not secret.
in writing. the current rules are being reformed mainly for internal reasons: to make parliament more efficient, to clarify the rules, to improve transparency, to protect parliament from interference by political forces seeking to sabotage its work. only a few changes were made as a result of wider changes, such as the 2006 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making or the creation of new bodies in the context of the banking union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the european union is a community founded on the principles of respect for human dignity, freedom and democracy, and the rule of law is a pillar of european liberal democracy and one of the eu's fundamental principles, deriving from the constitutional traditions common to all eu member states. the document stresses that human dignity is the inviolable foundation of all fundamental rights and should not be manipulated in any way. on the contrary, it must be respected and protected in all eu initiatives. social inclusion, the situation of migrants and refugees, human trafficking, women's rights and violence against women are also discussed. and while it is a welcome attempt to address the challenges facing the eu in the areas listed, i cannot agree with some of the statements in the resolution that go against my convictions, and so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. insufficient protection and information of citizens about their rights under the charter of fundamental rights can increase frustration with the european project. furthermore, terrorism, the migrant crisis and the economic crisis are precisely the factors that polarize our societies. i therefore agree that the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union and the member states, when implementing union law, have a duty to ensure the protection of citizens' fundamental rights under the charter of fundamental rights. the eu must continue to be active not only in legal and economic matters but also in human rights issues.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the european parliament reiterates that human dignity is the inviolable foundation of all fundamental rights and should not be subject to any manipulation, and must be respected and protected in all eu initiatives, and therefore calls for the awareness of eu citizens to be raised about the inherent dignity of all persons in order to achieve a more humane and just society. secondly, parliament condemns all forms of discrimination and violence against all people in the eu, as they directly violate human dignity. parliament called on the commission to adopt an anti-corruption strategy incorporating effective measures. the ep also calls on the member states to follow the recommendations made in the commission's anti-corruption report and to strengthen police and judicial cooperation in the fight against corruption. calls on the member states and the eu institutions to contribute to the rapid establishment of the eppo, providing it with adequate guarantees of independence and efficiency; parliament welcomed the commission's initiatives and key actions to strengthen security cooperation between member states and the eu's effective response to terrorism and security threats in the european union, and fully supported measures to facilitate an effective security union. parliament called on the member states to cooperate fully with each other and to improve the exchange of information between themselves and with europol and other relevant eu agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the report addresses the social, legal, political and economic problems faced by the most vulnerable groups in society in the eu countries.
in writing. - i voted for this report. clearly, human rights abuses are rampant. it is therefore important for us to develop a single and comprehensive system for recording infringements. it is equally important to work actively within the european union to prevent these abuses. it is clear that the european parliament has shown in its voting that the protection of human rights remains one of the eu's most important issues.
in writing. calls on the member states to adopt strategies to ensure effective access to the labour market for persons with disabilities; regrets that some of the eu funds allocated to the integration of persons with disabilities are still not fully used for this purpose; calls on the commission to monitor closely the use of the funds and to take action if necessary; urges all member states to implement public education and awareness-raising campaigns that focus on children's rights to protection and promote positive, non-violent relationships with children; strongly condemns the prevalence of harassment and rape in public places in the union and believes that every woman and girl should feel safe and free from any form of sexual harassment in all public places;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a sustainable eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. in the 21st century, as europe moves towards a digital economy, traditional production processes are increasingly being replaced or supplanted by the cultural and creative sectors (hereinafter referred to as 'ccps'). the cultural and creative industries are based on cultural values, individual creativity and skills and have the potential to create wealth and jobs through the value of intellectual property. cultural and creative activities are based on, among others, the following sectors: architecture, archives and libraries, crafts, cultural heritage, design. unlike other industries, the cfp has a dual intrinsic value: it plays a key role in preserving and supporting the diversity of european cultures and languages, it strengthens the sense of european and regional identity, it helps to transmit knowledge and values and it preserves the tangible and intangible european heritage for present and future generations. it is therefore strategically important to support an innovative and research-oriented european kic, which is capable of both preserving linguistic and cultural diversity and pluralism and offering innovative and high-quality services, especially in the context of market integration and globalisation. i voted in favour because i share the rapporteur's view that, in order to exploit the full potential of the sector, coordinated action is needed at national, regional and local level, as well as at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. the cultural and creative industries (ccis) play a crucial role in the reindustrialisation of europe, are a driver of growth and their strategic position can lead to the diffusion of innovation in other sectors such as tourism, retail and digital technologies. i therefore support the eu's leadership role in promoting the significant positive impact of the creative sectors across europe, as well as supporting policies that nurture its unique cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors. culture, art and creativity are the true image of europe and its wealth in the world. in the 21st century, as europe moves towards a digital economy, the cultural and creative industries are increasingly disrupting traditional production processes and value chains. today, the creation of quality content, the ability to innovate, to tell stories, to imagine, to evoke emotions, has become our most precious commodity. it must be developed, supported, nurtured and protected. cultural and creative industries are industries based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent, with the potential to create wealth and jobs through the value of intellectual property. cultural and creative activities are based on the following sectors: architecture, archives and libraries, the arts, audiovisual works (including films, television, video games and multimedia), cultural heritage, design, the creative luxury goods industry and fashion, festivals, music, performing arts, books and publishing, radio and the visual arts. the roots and source of vitality of europe's cultural and creative industries are the uniqueness of european culture and art, reflected in a common cultural heritage that dates back 3,000 years.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. the text is obviously incoherent and incomplete. the wording of the guidelines may be interpreted and understood differently. i do not think that it is possible to support a text whose inaccuracies could have undesirable consequences later on.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the report for several reasons. the cultural and creative industries sector is a key and growing sector of the global economy. its role in creating and sustaining new jobs is increasingly recognised, particularly in the eu. however, a common and effective policy in this sector has not yet been established. the report contains specific proposals. a comprehensive strategy at european level is needed, taking into account all the specificities of the cultural industry. it is therefore essential to remind eu member states that the inclusion of theatre, music and film in the school curriculum is a must, as it is a key factor in the development of knowledge about cultural heritage.
in writing. cultural and creative industries are industries based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent, with the potential to create wealth and jobs through the value of intellectual property. cultural and creative activities are based on the following sectors: architecture, archives and libraries, the arts, audiovisual works (including films, television, video games and multimedia), cultural heritage, design, the creative luxury goods industry and fashion, festivals, music, performing arts, books and publishing, radio and the visual arts. the processes of building, improving and expanding infrastructure that is crucial to supporting creative industries in europe, in particular by ensuring the deployment of high-speed broadband in rural and remote areas, need to be encouraged and supported.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the motion for a european parliament resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership. one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign policy and of the european neighbourhood policy, in order to ensure security, peace and stability, is to stabilise the eu's neighbourhood. women play an important role in achieving this goal. the majority of those affected by armed conflict are women and children. for this reason, the role of women in conflict resolution and peacebuilding needs to be recognised and valued. i believe it is important to involve women more in peace negotiations and political change processes and to understand that greater gender equality would help achieve the objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. however, i cannot agree with some of the measures in the document to ensure women's rights and gender equality, and i voted against some of the proposals, but they were accepted by a majority. for this reason, i abstained from voting on the entire document.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. in order to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all, one of the key objectives of the european union's foreign policy and of the european neighbourhood policy is to stabilise the eu's neighbourhood. the communication emphasises the crucial role played by women in conflict resolution, peacebuilding and the resolution of conflict emergencies. i therefore agree that it is necessary to address the obstacles to women's empowerment and how greater gender equality would contribute to achieving the objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. in order to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all, one of the key objectives of the european union's foreign policy and of the european neighbourhood policy is to stabilise the eu's neighbourhood. women play a crucial role in achieving this goal. the eastern partnership was established in 2009 as a joint initiative of the european union, its member states and the six partner countries in eastern europe and the south caucasus armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine . as the eastern partnership is based on a commitment to the principles of international law, the fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, the importance of gender equality and women's rights cannot be overlooked. in the communication on the strategic priorities of the european neighbourhood policy 2014-2020, gender equality was highlighted as an all-round issue to be addressed and integrated in all relevant activities. gender equality is also mentioned as 'a promising new area of cooperation' in the latest eastern partnership summit declaration, endorsed at the riga eastern partnership summit in 2015. and indeed, women's empowerment and their active participation in social, political and economic life is crucial to achieve the process of change.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this is an important communication that sends a clear message to the commission. the report first calls on the commission to complete a gender impact assessment of readmission agreements with the eastern partnership countries. another important call is to ensure women's rights, regardless of their family and social status, such as women's access to visas. these requirements demonstrate the close monitoring by the european parliament of the situation of women in the eastern partnership countries. at the same time, it is desirable to encourage changes that could open up pathways for these countries to move closer to the eu.
in writing. i welcome the council of europe's project to identify and help to remove the obstacles to equal access to justice for women in the eastern partnership countries.
mr president, over the last few years, violations of fundamental human rights have become systematic just across the eu’s borders, in countries that enjoyed being the eu’s partners, strategic partners, or even candidate countries just a while ago. in russia, azerbaijan or turkey, for instance, the space of civil society has been shrinking, in some cases dramatically. harassment, imprisonment, and disappearances of independent journalists, political opposition and human rights defenders have become everyday news. just as one more faked election is on the news every few years. in some countries like belarus, things have been fixed for quite some time already when it comes to human rights. cleansed and frozen. this is the current status of the civil society in belarus. once called the last dictator in europe, lukashenko can only celebrate today as the restrictive measures are removed. at the same time, globally, in the united nations we observe another crisis of decision-making. in fact, the veto right has become a tool to defend dictatorships; a cover to make crimes against humanity close to legal. the immense propaganda and manipulation and false information on the top of all these, we are very close to having the cornerstones of the modern world order demolished.
mr president, let me start by thanking our rapporteurs for their commitment in this annual report, which covers a wide range of issues of the utmost importance. i have in mind the advancement of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, the very basics of the eu cfsp and other policies with an external dimension. the report points out attempts to shrink the space of civil society and limitations on freedoms of assembly or expression. it pays particular attention to women and children, as well as to new challenges like anti-microbacterial resistance and the right to health care, and eu human rights policies in this regard. it stresses also that trade and human rights must go hand in hand. this is true. the report keeps a horizontal focus and, to my mind, this is one of its shortcomings. eu representatives act in specific countries. they need our support, and they do not see the point in avoiding naming those countries or those responsible for the atrocities in our annual report and it is not at all about naming and shaming. it is first of all, about the victims, people like nadia murad and lamiya aji bashar. it looks like we tend to care about the image and the prestige of dictators and human rights violators, trying not to upset them instead of speaking on behalf of those who are oppressed and denied their rights and freedoms. finally, venezuela, cuba, russia, iran, china should be in our report.
madam president, i apologise for being absent during part of this debate: tonight the epp group is selecting its candidate to become the next president of the european parliament, so i had to be there. colleagues, the european union is surrounded by serious conflicts including the war going on in ukraine, the annexation of crimea, parts of georgia being occupied by russia, and other conflicts both hot and frozen. we in the baltics are threatened by russia on an almost everyday basis. the eu faces multifaceted challenges, including terrorism, cybersecurity, misinformation, human trafficking and radicalisation and growing populism. the external and internal threats are intertwined more and more. we believe that eu external action needs to be based on three pillars, the three ‘d’s of defence, development and diplomacy, though being aware that the level of the cfsp is only around eur 320 million. we understand that in order to safeguard its interests, protect its citizens and promote other values worldwide, the eu requires the full engagement of the member states and the coherent use of policies from our external policies toolbox. finally, my gratitude and admiration goes to elmar brok, the draftsman of this report and the long-standing chairman of the foreign affairs committee of this house: thank you, elmar.
i remember very well the resolution adopted by the european parliament five years ago in 2011 and our criticism of uzbekistan for the use of forced and child labour in the cotton harvest. today, the situation in uzbekistan is qualitatively different: the country has made significant progress in eliminating child labor. the monitoring by the european parliament and the european commission and the conclusions of the international labour organisation are in uzbekistan's favour: child labour is no more. why do we want to ignore these facts? why do we seek to undermine these reforms and the progress made? although the problem of forced labour has not been fully resolved, and student labour remains, uzbekistan is determined to continue reforms. let's acknowledge and support. the european union's interest in promoting trade between the european union and uzbekistan, the importance of the textile industry to uzbekistan's economy, the european union's support for uzbekistan's membership of the world trade organisation, all of which should lead to the textile protocol being approved tomorrow.
for the verts/ale group climate change, globalisation, market instability, unfair business practices these are just some of the causes of price volatility that we will continue to face in the future. in these circumstances, we must ensure that the smallest farms, especially family farms, survive, because they create jobs in remote regions and support rural vitality. as you know, direct payments are a forecast and fixed part of the income of the holding, which is particularly important in times of crisis. direct payments allow the farmer to plan this part of the income, the farmer knows exactly when and how much, what payments he will receive, but the current inequalities in direct payments distort the market. i regret that the report did not take account of the budget committee's essential observation that, in order to ensure a level playing field in the single market and a sustainable use of agricultural resources throughout the european union, direct payments must be harmonised between member states. production costs are similar across europe. is it not time to show that the european union is in solidarity and that it values the work of every farmer equally, no matter where he works? another important proposal is the education of farmers. in order to avoid crises, it is important to educate farmers on how to avoid crises, how to reduce their impact, how to choose the right measures and not waste resources, and how to ensure sustainable farming.
in writing. the agricultural market has always been characterised by volatility and price fluctuations. in recent years, due to rapid and significant changes in demand, supply and prices, it has become a structural feature of agriculture in europe, but also on a global scale. there are many reasons for this. climate change and pests in agriculture have a negative impact on agricultural production, which has a direct impact on prices. the european union's responsibility for contributing to food safety in europe must therefore be increased. european farmers, especially those from the new member states, as well as lithuania, are increasingly exposed to risks beyond their control. the eu should therefore increase its aid to farmers in these countries. the eu should guarantee stability in the agricultural sector, as price fluctuations create a high level of uncertainty for producers and consumers. low prices put producers at risk of losing their profits and investment capacity, while high food prices create difficulties in the purchase of basic foodstuffs, leading to a crisis situation. it is necessary to provide member states with additional tools and guarantee assistance in the field of crop, animal and plant protection, investment funds and a new income stabilisation instrument. this will help to eliminate the long-standing instability in the agricultural sector.
we talk about migration and security all the time, but the actions on these issues are completely inadequate even for our own language. we do not have a comprehensive security strategy, which the council is preparing to discuss. there are only interests of individual larger states of the european union in this security and defence strategy. we have no migration strategy. the second problem will be discussed again by the council. the talks will likely also include discussions on turkey's progress or agreements with african states. are you expecting specific solutions? i'm just fascinated by your naivete. ladies and gentlemen, let us stop talking about secondary matters and start discussing the essential issues that are important to ordinary europeans who only want to live in their own country, work, earn money, build their lives in their own homeland, where no immigrants dictate their rules. i hope that european leaders will be able to understand this.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on insolvency cases and insolvency practitioners' lists. regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings will apply from 26 june 2017. the annexes to this regulation contain lists of insolvency practitioners and insolvency practitioners relevant for its application. annex a lists the insolvency proceedings and annex b lists the insolvency practitioners. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantially revised national restructuring law, which was to enter into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether the request submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the new version of the regulation is aligned with the current legal basis of the polish insolvency legislation by the date of its application. given that the commission's proposal is purely technical and does not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation, i support the aim of the draft resolution and its content.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the communication on the proposal to amend the lists of insolvency practitioners and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. it shall apply from 26 june 2017. the annexes to this regulation contain lists of insolvency practitioners and insolvency practitioners relevant for its application. however, poland informed the commission of the substantial revision of the national restructuring law, which was to enter into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether the request submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation. since the commission proposal is purely technical and does not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation, parliament endorses the amendment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on insolvency cases and insolvency practitioners. the annexes to the insolvency regulation contain lists of insolvency practitioners and insolvency practitioners relevant to its application. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantially revised national restructuring law, which was to enter into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in the annexes to the regulation be amended accordingly. the annexes to the regulation may only be amended by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure on the basis of the legal basis applicable to the original regulation, namely article 81 tfeu. the commission has examined whether the request submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the new version of the regulation is aligned with the current legal basis of the polish insolvency law by the date of its application. in this context, the commission's proposal is purely technical. it does not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation. the european parliament endorses the objective of the proposal and its general content.
in writing. - i have approved the report by my colleague, mr t. zwiefko. it was a non-controversial report on technical changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft european parliament resolution on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on bilateral trade in textile products. in december 2011, the european parliament adopted a preliminary report indicating that it would accept the agreement on the condition that the human rights situation in uzbekistan improved, in particular by abolishing child and forced labour in the cotton harvest. following the adoption of the abovementioned report, a dialogue was established with uzbekistan and annual hearings were organised with representatives of civil society, the uzbek authorities, the eu and other international institutions. close cooperation between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation (ilo) has also been established to assess the progress made towards the elimination of child and any other form of forced labour in the cotton harvesting sector in uzbekistan. the cotton harvesting monitoring mission (cms) was carried out in 2013, 2014 and 2015. the report of the last ilo monitoring mission shows that the use of child labour in the cotton harvest is practically eliminated. the ilo has confirmed that child labour has become a singular and socially unacceptable phenomenon. therefore, in the light of the ongoing dialogue and fruitful cooperation, the european parliament should support the efforts of the uzbek authorities in supporting the protocol to the agreement with uzbekistan on textile products, in view of the progress made by uzbekistan in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textile products. in 2011, the european parliament adopted a preliminary report indicating that it would accept this agreement on the condition that the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular with regard to child and forced labour, would improve each year of the cotton harvest. the efforts of the uzbek authorities to abolish forced labour have been evident since the last international labour organisation (ilo) monitoring mission. in the light of the ongoing dialogue and cooperation, i support the agreement with uzbekistan on textiles.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which deals with the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. the european parliament is requested to give its consent to the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement by extending the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textile products. the ratification of the protocol on textiles would include textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between uzbekistan and the eu, which was concluded in 1999. the provisions of the chapter on trade in goods of the said partnership and cooperation agreement would therefore also apply to textile products. the provisions of this chapter provide for the reciprocal granting of most-favoured-nation treatment, trade without quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trade at market prices, safeguard clauses and provide for the prohibition or restriction of imports, exports or goods in transit on grounds of public morality, public interest and public security. following the adoption of that report, a dialogue was established with uzbekistan and annual hearings are held with the participation of a wide range of stakeholders, including civil society, the authorities of uzbekistan, european and international institutions. close cooperation between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation (ilo) has also been established to assess the progress made towards the elimination of child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ textile products are an important part of uzbekistan's foreign trade. foreign trade, as we know, is an important instrument of the eu's external relations. by opening up its market, the eu can encourage partner countries to make progress on human rights and political freedoms. unfortunately, there is nothing to encourage in uzbekistan at the moment. even after the death of a longtime dictator, the situation in the country does not improve. i myself sincerely hope that the people of uzbekistan will start to build a state for themselves and not for the elite, and i am ready to agitate for any help to that end. however, as we can see from current trends, the time is not yet ripe for this. it is too early to talk about progress in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by ms arena because i believe that the council's approval of the adoption of a cooperation and partnership agreement with uzbekistan would be beneficial for both parties. this will also have a positive impact on the mutual trade in textiles. this decision of the council and parliament is awaited by european garment factories because cheap raw materials from uzbekistan will improve the competitive position of european products in the textile industry.
the european parliament is requested to give its consent to the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement by extending the application of its provisions to bilateral trade in textile products. the ratification of the protocol on textiles would include textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between uzbekistan and the eu, which was concluded in 1999. the provisions of the chapter on trade in goods of the said partnership and cooperation agreement would therefore also apply to textile products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textile products. the textile sector, particularly cotton production, is a major area of trade between the eu and uzbekistan. i support the provision of the resolution which notes that uzbekistan has made significant progress since 2013, including the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of child labour and the near-total abolition of child labour. the resolution encourages the uzbek authorities to continue a nationwide campaign to raise awareness of the need to eliminate child labour. the fact that the government of uzbekistan, in cooperation with the international labour organisation (ilo), is also working towards the elimination of forced labour is to be welcomed and that progress has been made, but it should be stressed that there are still hidden, undisclosed instances of involuntary labour. the situation calls for reform of employment policy. taking the view that these efforts by the government of uzbekistan should lead parliament to give its consent to the eu-uzbekistan protocol on textile products, as such consent would provide an incentive for the government of uzbekistan to continue its efforts to fully eliminate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as well as to further strengthen cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the resolution on the council decision on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textile products. in 2011, the european parliament adopted a preliminary report indicating that it would accept this agreement on the condition that the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular with regard to child and forced labour, would improve each year of the cotton harvest. following the last monitoring mission of the international labour organisation (ilo), efforts by the uzbek authorities to abolish forced labour are evident. in the light of the ongoing dialogue and cooperation, i welcome the agreement with uzbekistan on the textiles agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament takes the view that, as a result of the efforts of the government of uzbekistan, parliament should give its consent to the eu-uzbekistan protocol on textile products. such approval would be a positive signal of encouragement for the government of uzbekistan to continue its efforts to fully eliminate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as well as to further strengthen cooperation with the european union. parliament welcomes the significant progress made in uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of child labour and the near-total abolition of child labour. it encourages the authorities to continue the national campaign to raise awareness to eliminate child labour altogether. welcomes also the fact that the government of uzbekistan, in cooperation with the international labour organisation, is also working towards the abolition of forced labour and that progress has been made, but stresses that subtle forms of involuntary work still exist, that this process is complex and requires, inter alia, reform of employment policy.
in writing. ‒ textile products are an important part of uzbekistan's foreign trade. foreign trade, as we know, is an important instrument of the eu's external relations. by opening up its market, the eu can encourage partner countries to make progress on human rights and political freedoms. unfortunately, there is nothing to encourage in uzbekistan at the moment. even after the death of a longtime dictator, the situation in the country does not improve. i myself sincerely hope that the people of uzbekistan will start to build a state for themselves and not for the elite, and i am ready to agitate for any help to that end. however, as we can see from current trends, the time is not yet ripe for this. it is too early to talk about progress in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru (accession of ecuador). on 11 december 2012, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution in which it endorsed the conclusion of such an agreement. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility for other andean community member states to accede to the agreement. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement, welcoming the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador, encouraging the swift entry into force and full implementation of the agreement, believing that it will help ecuador to continue to pursue a new direction, namely to promote a policy of economically and socially sustainable development in a country in a complex regional and international context. it took the view that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, its gradual and flexible implementation, taking into account periodic assessments and consultations with the government of ecuador and civil societies of both parties to the agreement, should be a step forward towards an eu alliance with important, fast-growing economies in this region of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, which takes account of the accession of ecuador. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, constitutes an important step forward in the development of relations between the eu and ecuador, which has become an important partner in the region with similar interests. however, i agree that the commission must ensure full implementation of the provisions on sustainable development and closely monitor the political and fundamental rights situation in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru (accession of ecuador). this agreement was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, the gradual and flexible implementation of this agreement, with the commission providing for an initial phase, taking into account periodic assessments and consultations with the government of ecuador and civil society of both parties to the agreement, should be a step forward towards an alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries in a region that seeks increasingly close ties with the asia-pacific states. ecuador responded to the request of the european parliament and submitted to the european parliament on 21 june 2016 a document 'summary of ecuador's policies, achievements and actions towards good living conditions'. in this context, parliament endorsed the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ ecuador's accession to the trilateral trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru is a very welcome decision. this will undoubtedly help european producers to participate in the south american market. i would also like to point out that the report under consideration also covers the necessary measures to protect european bananas. i am even a little jealous that other european agricultural sectors, such as potato farmers, are not receiving as much attention from some of the right-wing groups. the question is whether the negotiators were right to focus on bananas in the face of the profits of a few farms on remote islands, especially when much more time and intellectual effort could have been invested in improving the overall content of the treaty and linking its provisions more closely to the situation of human rights and freedoms in ecuador.
in writing. ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, its gradual and flexible implementation, with the commission providing for an initial phase, taking into account periodic assessments and consultations with the government of ecuador and civil society in both parties to the agreement, should be a step forward towards an alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries in a region that seeks ever closer ties with the asia-pacific states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak strait. in the kattegat and skagerrak straits, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together for the same fish since the middle ages. the fact that two countries have become eu member states has not changed the principle that fishermen from these three countries should enjoy historical fishing rights in the skagerrak and kattegat straits. the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) provides a framework for the management of fish stocks in the waters covered by the policy. this policy supports the historical rights of fishermen. the new agreement gives danish, norwegian and swedish vessels exclusive fishing rights in their waters up to four nautical miles from the baselines. it provides for mutual access by the two eu member states and norway to the respective waters of the other contracting parties in the skagerrak and kattegat area on a permanent basis, while ensuring sound conservation and fisheries management measures in this area. it also allows for control measures in line with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction, such as those applicable to fisheries in the north sea. i supported this agreement because it contributes to supporting historic fishing rights in this area and it will also help to implement the improved cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak straits.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the recommendation on the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on the reciprocal access to the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. under this agreement, these three countries had reciprocal access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat straits up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines. the agreement was initially valid for 35 years, until 2002, and was subsequently extended for two five-year periods, until 2012. however, norway has terminated the agreement in the light of recent developments in international fisheries law. after some time, norway entered into formal negotiations with the commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the european union, with a view to concluding an agreement on mutual access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat area, replacing the previous agreement. as the new agreement is in conformity with the provisions of the un convention on the law of the sea and subsequent related agreements, i hereby approve the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak strait. the 1966 agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on mutual access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat entered into force in 1967. under this agreement, which was supplemented in 1980 by a bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway, the three countries had reciprocal access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat straits up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines. the agreement also provides that for the purposes of such fishing, that area is to be considered as international waters. the agreement thus governed the relations between flag states and coastal states. in the light of recent developments in international fisheries law, and in particular after the entry into force of the 1982 un convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 un fisheries agreement, norway has concluded that the existing agreement is not compatible with the current provisions of the law of the sea. norway was most concerned about the control provisions. in addition, it considered that the agreement did not comply with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction under the un convention on the law of the sea and the current principles of conservation and management. the new agreement grants danish, norwegian and swedish vessels exclusive fishing rights in their waters up to four nautical miles from baselines.
in writing. ‒ fishing in the skagerrak is a small but important issue for the functioning of the european economic area. although the issue is essentially technical and does not raise major political objections, its rapid resolution demonstrates the efficiency of the functioning of the eea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in the skagerrak strait. danish, norwegian and swedish fishermen have traditionally always fished together in the kattegat and skagerrak straits. the agreement proposes to continue to guarantee the historical fishing rights of danish, norwegian and swedish fishermen in the kattegat and skagerrak straits, without prejudice to the rights of other states' fishermen, while ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in these waters. this agreement also contributes to the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system, taking into account the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). this is particularly true for the application of mandatory measures to maintain stocks at levels that ensure sustainable fishing. in addition to these principles, i also agree with the need to emphasise that any third country's access to the internal market must be based on reciprocity. in addition, in the case of norway, the eu customs duties on food products, including fishery products, are in line with the agreement on the european economic area. the commission must ensure that the customs duties applicable to food and fishery products in the eu are set in a way that does not conflict with the principles of free trade in food products, including fishery products.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on the reciprocal fishing opportunities in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. under this agreement, these three countries had reciprocal access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat straits up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines. the agreement was initially valid for 35 years, until 2002, and was subsequently extended for two five-year periods, until 2012. however, norway has terminated the agreement in the light of recent developments in international fisheries law. after some time, norway entered into formal negotiations with the commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the european union, with a view to concluding an agreement on mutual access to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat area, replacing the previous agreement. as the new agreement is in conformity with the provisions of the un convention on the law of the sea and subsequent related agreements, i hereby approve the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on the commission to present a comprehensive report to parliament and the council on the implementation of the agreement during the last year of application of the agreement and before the start of negotiations on its renewal. it also calls on the commission and the council, within the limits of their respective powers, to keep parliament promptly and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal, as provided for in the treaty on european union. parliament also stresses that any third country's access to the internal market must be based on reciprocity and that, in the case of norway, customs duties on food products, including fishery products, from the eu must be in line with the eea agreement. the ep also stresses that the commission must ensure that the duties on food and fishery products from the eu are not imposed in a way that conflicts with the principles of free trade in food products, including fishery products. this agreement also contributes to the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management framework established under the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), in particular the implementation of the landing obligation and the enforcement of mandatory measures to maintain stocks above sustainable levels.
in writing. ‒ fishing in the skagerrak is a small but important issue for the functioning of the european economic area. although the issue is essentially technical and does not raise major political objections, its rapid resolution demonstrates the efficiency of the functioning of the eea.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. this agreement provides for the exchange of information (including personal data), expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, crime prevention methods and assistance in the investigation of specific criminal offences. the europol joint supervisory body, composed of national data protection authorities with competence in law enforcement, has expressed its agreement to the conclusion of this cooperation agreement, taking into account the level of data protection in georgia. europol has a clear operational need to cooperate more closely with georgia. according to europol representatives, georgia's importance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is increasing, as it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. i voted in favour, also because the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is in itself international.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. europol argues that georgia's importance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is increasing as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups in georgia. in this context, i support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia. this would help to strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is in itself international.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. under the current council decision on the establishment of europol, the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third states or international organisations is subject to the approval of the council after consulting the european parliament. such agreements may involve the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall include the exchange of personal data. this proposal relates to the proposal to approve an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. this information could relate to specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods and assistance in specific criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i fully support georgia's practical involvement in the european area of freedom, justice and security. the cooperation agreement between georgia and europol is a crucial step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) (oj egf/2016/004 eu/comunidad valenciana, cars). the fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. this is the 10th application under the 2016 budget and the 23rd in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector for a total of eur 856 800 for the needs of spain under the egf. this support is intended to help spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of 250 workers made redundant by the bankruptcy of the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturer bosal sa and its closure. bosal s.a. mainly produced cars for the spanish and other european markets. the company has been experiencing difficulties since 2012 due to the decrease in the production of cars in the eu. in order to adapt production capacity to demand and reduce costs, bosal took advantage of the mandatory reduced working hours which were applied to all employees. however, these measures failed on 15 january 2015 the company declared bankruptcy. i voted in favour, taking into account the positive conclusion of the commission, adopted in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, and the necessary guarantees given by spain regarding the absorption and use of the financial contribution.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain. on 8 november 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to support spain's efforts to provide redundancies following the bankruptcy and closure of the company bosal s.a.. the dismissed workers concerned by this application are 71% over 45 years of age, 78% have worked continuously for at least 15 years in the same company and 50% have no education. i therefore support the decision of spain to mobilise the fund for training measures focusing on professional qualifications, such as those required for the carriage of passengers, or in areas or sectors where there are or could be opportunities: food, culinary, occupational risk prevention and quality control and environmental standards, heating, ventilation and air conditioning projects and maintenance of industrial equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's examination of the application from spain egf/2016/004 eu/comunidad valenciana, cars. on 8 november 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to support spain's redundancies following the bankruptcy and closure of the company bosal s.a., which has made a number of redundancies in relation to this application. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation. bosal s.a. started its activities in 1986 in the city of sagunto. its main activity was the production of parts and accessories for motor vehicles (in particular automotive exhaust systems, catalytic converters, etc.). bosal started out producing mainly for the spanish car market, but later started producing a wider range of products, producing original components for other car markets as well. the company has been experiencing difficulties since 2012 due to the decrease in the production of cars in the eu. in order to adapt production capacity to demand and reduce costs, bosal took advantage of the mandatory reduced working hours which were applied to all employees. however, these measures failed on 15 january 2015, the company declared bankruptcy and was placed in special administration. as indicated by the commission, the proposed actions described are active labour market measures falling within the scope of eligible actions as defined in article 7 of the egf regulation. these actions do not replace passive social protection measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2016/004 eu/comunidad valenciana for cars from spain). the ep agreed with the commission that all the conditions of the egf were met and that spain is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 856 800 under this regulation, which represents 60% of the total cost of eur 1 428 000 to reintegrate 250 workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of the company bosal s.a. into the labour market. the main activity of bosal sa was the production of parts and accessories for motor vehicles. bosal started to produce mainly for the spanish car market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, following the spanish application, to alleviate the situation created by the closure of automotive factories in the valencia region. the european solidarity fund is an important instrument to help tackle structural labour market problems and to support efforts to re-skill the workforce.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendments which proposed to reject the council's position. i support the proposal to regulate the accounting of railway undertakings. the existing regulation no 1192/69 on the common rules for the organisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which the commission proposes to repeal, allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment obligations they assume, which other transport undertakings are not obliged to assume. these obligations may relate, for example, to special payments in the event of accidents at work (the railway undertaking is obliged to pay them, but the state pays them in the case of other transport undertakings). the regulation was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market, i.e. when european rail transport was developing mainly in member states where integrated companies operating both rail services and rail infrastructure were operating. at that time, the regulation was intended to ensure that railway undertakings and other transport undertakings were treated equally in the burden-sharing of social costs. for the original purposes of the regulation, it contains a list listing the formerly state-owned railway companies. this list has been adjusted several times to take account of the accession of new member states and currently comprises 40 companies. however, the commission notes that this regulation no longer takes into account the current legal environment that discriminates against non-listed companies, since the possibility of receiving compensation is granted only to 40 companies listed in the annex to this regulation. i therefore support the proposals of the commission and the council to repeal that regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on common accounting standards for railway undertakings. the purpose of the notification is to repeal regulation (ec) no 1192/69, which allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for payment obligations which other transport undertakings are not obliged to assume.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the accounting standards for railway undertakings. the regulation, which the commission proposes to repeal, allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for payment obligations they have assumed, which other transport undertakings are not obliged to assume. these obligations may relate, for example, to special payments for accidents at work (the railway undertaking is obliged to pay them, but the state pays them for other types of transport undertakings), pensions for railway workers who normally retire early because of certain heavy work, or payments for the cost of the transition infrastructure. at that time, the aim of the regulation was to ensure that railway undertakings and other transport undertakings were treated equally in the allocation of social and externalities costs. moreover, at that time the relationship between the governments and the mainly state-owned railway companies was not yet regulated by contracts and the two entities were linked by a much closer chain of ownership. for the original purposes of the regulation, it contains a list listing the formerly state-owned railway companies. this list has been adjusted several times to take account of the accession of new member states and currently comprises 40 companies. as the commission states in its proposal, this regulation no longer takes account of the current legal environment. parliament agrees that the current text of the regulation is discriminatory, since only 40 companies listed in the annex to this regulation are eligible for compensation, and that there is no way to keep this regulation in force unless the list of railway companies is kept up to date.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission's proposal to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common accounting standards for railway undertakings, as the adoption of a large number of new documents regulating the railway sector means that the current legal environment is no longer taken into account by this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the accounting standardisation of railway undertakings is an important tool for ensuring the functioning of the single market and the railway sector. harmonizing the legislation of the 28 member states in a complex area such as railways is certainly not an easy task. although it is a technical document, it has been the subject of lengthy negotiations and i am pleased that an agreement has finally been reached.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendments which proposed to reject the council's position. i support the proposal on internal rail passenger services to open up the internal market for rail passenger services and to improve the quality and efficiency of rail passenger services. this should increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. to this end, it is envisaged to launch mandatory competitive tendering procedures for public service contracts, thus increasing the competitive pressure on the internal railway markets. this measure is accompanied by provisions to ensure favourable conditions for the main competitive tenders, including rules on access to rolling stock and a transparent non-discriminatory public service procurement procedure. this proposal will also help to strengthen the provisions on infrastructure management regulation in order to enhance non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to open up the internal market for rail passenger services. the purpose of the communication is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to ensure more efficient provision of these services. the proposed measures should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on domestic passenger rail services. the overall objective of the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to ensure a more efficient provision of those services. this should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. in order to achieve this overall objective, the commission proposed to launch mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to increase the competitive pressure on the internal railway markets. this is to ensure greater efficiency and better quality of rail passenger services. these measures are accompanied by provisions designed to ensure favourable conditions for the main competitive tenders, including rules on access to rolling stock. the commission proposal is closely linked to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area, which establish rights related to open access for railway undertakings and strengthen provisions on infrastructure management regulation in order to enhance non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal and the new eu rules on rail transport. i hope they will encourage member states to open up competition for passenger transport by train and to provide equal access to rail infrastructure for all operators. eu rules aim to strengthen rail passenger services, which lag behind other modes of transport in terms of popularity and are subject to mixed consumer assessments. it is also proposed to require all eu member states to open competitive tendering procedures for the carriage of passengers by rail or to justify the inadequacy of such procedures.
in writing. - i supported the motion. while it rejects the council's position, it does in fact offer a much greater opportunity to open up the eu rail market. it gives due weight to the rights of social workers, the national railway development plans of the member states and other important aspects of market regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the amendments which proposed to reject the council's position. i support the proposal for a single european railway area and the measures it provides for, which will facilitate access for new entrants and service providers to the internal markets for rail passenger services. this reform should stimulate investment in the railway sector, while increased competition would lead to lower prices and higher quality of service. trains are an environmentally friendly means of transport and promoting rail transport would also help reduce emissions across europe. the reform aims to enable all eu railway undertakings to provide rail services across the eu, ensuring financial transparency and fair financing conditions. equal market access opportunities and an increasing number of operators should ultimately stimulate traffic. increased competition and specialisation of market participants should also have a positive impact on efficiency and effectiveness, and should encourage increased investment in rail transport infrastructure. it is envisaged that new market entrants will be able to provide competing commercial services from 2020 and that from 2023 the competent authorities will have to award rail public service contracts by means of competitive tendering open to all (with certain exceptions) eu railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ as the european union, we strive for a competitive and dynamic market that would incentivise stable growth in all member states. a key factor in order to reach these goals is the fluidity of movement of goods which heavily relies on the railway system in europe. from the times of the ‘iron curtain’ the railway system was a definitive difference between the two sides, the remnants of which stigmatise the ability of people and goods to move throughout the whole of europe. a single european railway area would show the europe is moving to true and full cooperation, allowing their citizens to travel freely around all of europe and allowing their companies to benefit from the advantages of trade. for these reasons a single european railway area would benefit all member states and would further strengthen the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a common european railway area. the purpose of this communication is to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services in order to increase competitive pressure on national rail transport markets in order to offer more and better quality passenger services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the single european railway area. these amendments should increase competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. equal market access opportunities and an increasing number of operators should ultimately create new economic activities and stimulate traffic. increased competition and specialisation of market participants should also have a positive impact on efficiency and effectiveness, and should encourage increased investment in rail transport infrastructure. the combination of open access and competitive public service contracts should further open up the market, as has already happened in the markets for international freight and passenger transport, as evidenced by the maturity of the freight market, which has allowed rail to gain a larger market share. increased competition should make rail transport more attractive, and as a result the sector will become more responsive to customer needs, making it easier for railway undertakings to compete with other modes of transport. the further development of high-speed passenger services should also make rail transport more competitive, increasing its market share and contributing to climate change objectives. the expanding rail transport activities should also increase the demand for trained railway workers and railway infrastructure and rolling stock, and therefore create more jobs in the railway manufacturing industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the directive. i hope that this will stimulate competition in the railway sector and create a level playing field for all operators to access railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a single railway area is an important eu challenge. i am glad that today's vote brings us closer to that goal. it is also important that the resolution adopted has succeeded in removing some of the excessive and unnecessary provisions concerning the very high level of support for high-speed rail lines. instead of ultra-fast and ultra-expensive lines, we should focus on developing sufficiently fast, high-quality, environmentally friendly and economical transport in all european countries, with due attention also paid to the new member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the single european railway area. this amendment to the directive is a proposal for six pieces of legislation which should revitalise the railway sector and improve its service. the amendments will also give passengers greater choice of providers in the area of passenger transport. improving the efficiency of services is a fair attempt to implement the changes proposed in the directive. this will help to ensure that the competitiveness of eu rail transport is increased and will support innovative solutions that bring more benefits to the people of the union.
in writing. specific rules governing access to union rail infrastructure for fast passenger services have been established to develop the market for fast passenger services and to promote its competitiveness, as this is beneficial for passengers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on market access to port services and financial transparency in ports. the draft resolution aims to contribute to the efficiency, connectivity and coherence of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), thus creating a system that will improve the efficiency of all ports and enable them to adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the project may include the renewal of port services and activities and the creation of conditions that would encourage investment in ports. the aim is also to eliminate weak competition and possible market abuse, thereby increasing the efficiency of port services. the project is also in line with other important eu policies, such as the white paper on transport, the european infrastructure networks facility and the blue belt initiative. it will apply to all sea ports referred to in the ten-t guidelines and will help to remove the additional administrative burden faced by ports already performing well, while helping other ports to address their structural challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports. i support parliament's proposal to introduce a transparent pricing system and to require ports to declare the funds they receive from the state in their financial statements. these rules target more than 300 eu ports, employing almost half a million workers. the aim is to encourage more efficient port operations, which is expected to attract more investment. in turn, maritime transport is to be a competitive and sustainable alternative to congested road transport.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on market access for port services and financial transparency in ports. the commission's proposal aims to help make the ten-t network more efficient, better connected and more coherent by creating a system that improves the efficiency of all ports and enables them to adapt more easily to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the renewal of port services and activities and the creation of conditions that encourage investment in ports. the commission aims to eliminate the weak competition conditions and possible market abuse cases and thus increase the efficiency of the port services provided. freight and passenger services are excluded from chapter ii for market entry reasons, as they are often provided under concession contracts and are therefore covered by the concession directive. this regulation should therefore apply in conjunction with directive 2014/23/eu on the award of concession contracts. a clear system of state aid rules is an important criterion for fair competition between ports on equal terms. this regulation will apply to all seaports referred to in the ten-t guidelines and, according to the commission, will help to remove the additional administrative burden faced by ports already performing well, while at the same time helping other ports to meet their structural challenges.
in writing. ‒ while the proposed draft legislation has some very good aims to facilitate access to the port market, to make port services more transparent, it also has a very large number of shortcomings. the shortcomings - from the restriction of workers' social rights such as the right to strike, to the de facto refusal to align the text with state aid rules, to the disregard for environmental objectives in setting port charges - do not allow me to support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted for the appointment of juhan pars as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which proposes the appointment of mr juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate and a hearing was held on 5 december 2016 in the committee on budgetary control. parliament therefore gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. the candidate, for his part, stressed that the standard of performance of performance audits should be changes in the real environment, actual solutions to problems, rather than the number of proposals accepted and put into practice. it is to be noted that the success of the auditor and the audited entity is not measured by the recommendations adopted and implemented. this quickly puts us in a position where we can make offers that are convenient for both parties. in many cases, a proper break from the routine of the executive is required, and the european parliament's understanding and support is crucial in such situations. the effectiveness of performance audits requires a partner with an interest in addressing the issues raised by those audits. the committee on budgetary control is an excellent partner for the ear. there can be no doubt that your committee exercises control over all executive actions in the most direct sense. it is also necessary that the audited body (in this case the commission) is aware of the nature of the problems and takes the necessary measures to rectify the situation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the council's nomination of mr juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i agreed to this well-reasoned proposal.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft european parliament legislative resolution on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel (rfcsc). the programme shall be financed by the resources accruing from the remaining assets of the defunct european coal and steel community. the apmtf brings together industry partners, the best research centres and universities from across the european union to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in this field. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. i voted in favour of amending the legal basis of the programme, following a periodic evaluation of the rules for administering the programme, in order to achieve the following objectives: 1) facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries by simplifying the rules and aligning them proportionately with the rules of the horizon 2020 research framework programme; (2) ensure that the commission administers the programme in a transparent manner. the commission proposes amendments to clarify the status of experts appointed by the commission as members of the advisory and technical groups established under the legal basis of the apmtf programme in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal to amend decision 2008/376/ec on the adoption of the research programme of the research foundation for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. the purpose of the commission proposal is to amend the legal basis of the programme following a periodic review of the programme's administrative rules in order to: 1. facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries by simplifying the rules and aligning them proportionally with the rules of the horizon 2020 joint research programme, with which the coal and steel stakeholders are familiar; 2. ensure that the commission administers the programme with due transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. this includes the updating of the relevant provisions of the legal basis, in particular those relating to the committee procedure.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the research programme of the research foundation for coal and steel. the european union has been supporting research into coal and steel for more than 50 years. this started in 1951 with the signing of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc). when this contract expired in 2002, it was decided to transfer eapb's assets (and the related interest) to the research fund for coal and steel (apmtf). the programme is financed by the proceeds of the remaining (non-operating) assets of eapb. it shall be administered by the commission. the emff is complementary to horizon 2020 but is not managed under it. the emff allocates some eur 50 million to both the coal and steel sectors (72,8% for the steel sector and 27,2% for the coal sector). it brings together industrial partners, smes, the best research centres and universities from across the european union to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in this field. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. the commission proposes to facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries by simplifying the rules and aligning them proportionally with the rules of the horizon 2020 research framework programme, which are familiar to stakeholders in the coal and steel sectors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposals to amend the council decision on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. the aim of this proposal is to facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries, to simplify the rules and to align them proportionately with the rules of the framework programme for research.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, parliament adopted this very unbalanced text on the research programme of the research foundation for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. unfortunately, we have not been able to remove allusions to the support of shale gas extraction from the text. nor was it possible to include provisions on technologically advanced steel production methods or greater transparency in the work of the expert groups.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the so-called research programme on coal and steel because it is necessary to introduce better conditions and guidelines. the coal and steel sectors are important in the european integration process and play a key role in the overall structure of the union industry. but at the same time, working conditions in these sectors are very difficult and often have a negative impact on the health of workers and citizens. therefore, factories and enterprises should comply with all conditions related to civil liability, final decisions, mitigation of social restructuring or plant liquidation. where possible, the public partners should be consulted on issues related to public accountability and job protection.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area. as the report rightly points out, there is a risk that human rights and democratic values will not be respected and promoted worldwide. the universality of human rights is increasingly and persistently contested in some countries, including those ruled by authoritarian regimes and terrorist groups. efforts to reduce the space for civil society and human rights defenders are also increasing, and freedom of assembly and expression are being further restricted. i support the call to condemn such abuses and violations. no legislation should in any way restrict the space in which civil society groups can operate. the report calls on the eu institutions and member states to act in accordance with their obligations to promote democracy and the rule of law, and to protect and fulfil human rights and fundamental freedoms. the call for eu member states to set an example and take a common position in support of the indivisibility of human rights is also welcome. finally, the eu's commitment to upholding human rights and promoting democratic values worldwide is recalled. a swift and appropriate response to human rights violations must be ensured even in the early stages of human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2015 and the european union's policy on the matter. given the deteriorating situation of human rights and democracy in the world and the diversity of conflicts, i agree that the eu needs to focus more on human rights issues, as the eu has many instruments to do so.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area. the european parliament is deeply concerned that human rights and democratic values are at risk of being disregarded and discouraged worldwide. parliament strongly underlines the eu's commitment to the development of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and all other external-related eu policies, based on the promotion of the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, equality and solidarity, and the principles enshrined in the united nations charter and international human rights and humanitarian law. these principles are also inherent in external action outside the cfsp and, inter alia, in development and humanitarian policy instruments. parliament also expressed its deep concern at the current high number of attacks on human rights defenders and called on the eu, and in particular the high representative and the vice-president of the commission, to adopt a policy of systematic and unequivocal condemnation of the killings of human rights defenders and of any attempts to use violence against them, persecute them, threaten them, harass them, imprison or arbitrarily arrest them, take measures to make them disappear, and condemn those who commit or tolerate such atrocities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of human rights in the world in 2015. the report addresses the social, legal, political, economic problems faced by migrants, women, people with disabilities, religious and ethnic minorities in the world.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area. the document shows the important role played by the european union in this area and, unfortunately, how little is being done.
in writing. i strongly condemn all attacks, intimidation, arrests, killings, harassment or repression against prosecutors, judges, academics and journalists or any other profession whose independence and professional freedom are essential to the strengthening of a democratic society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the resolution states that the eu is one of the greatest achievements in european history and that its capacity to bring about change has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and to its neighbours, many of whom have become eu member states. the eu remains the world's largest economic power, the largest provider of humanitarian and development assistance, and a leader in global multilateral diplomacy, such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation and human rights. i agree with the report that the eu must take responsibility for our security: prevent, protect, deter, respond. the eu must strengthen its security and defence capabilities, because it can only achieve its full potential as a global player by combining its soft power with its hard power. the resolution calls on member states to increase investment in defence spending, including defence research. i think it is rightly emphasised that one of europe's top priorities at the moment must be to ensure peace and stability on our continent, in our neighbouring countries and in africa, because without security there can be no sustainable development, which is the precondition for stability, social justice and democracy.
in writing. ‒ in the current turbulent times in and around the european union, there is a great need for all its institutions and member states to cooperate in the field of its security. the cfsp is one of the most important steps in order to bolster europe’s resilience to threats to its security. member states have to start shifting their security perspective from one of individual national priorities to one of a wider scale, spanning all of europe. the cfsp reaches not only to europe’s borders, but beyond them as well, trying to subdue threats coming from neighbouring regions as well. as a whole, the cfsp is a major key for europe to be able to stand together and united in one of the most important aspects – its security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the draft resolution proposes to define a new, more realistic strategy for eu relations with russia and to develop a common eu foreign policy through the three pillars of diplomacy, development cooperation and defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the european parliament recalls that the european union is one of the greatest achievements in european history and that the eu's capacity to bring about change has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and neighbouring countries, many of whom have become eu member states. the ep also stresses that the eu remains the world's largest economic power, the largest provider of humanitarian and development aid and a leader in global multilateral diplomacy, such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights. parliament called on the commission and the member states to strengthen their capacity to combat disinformation and propaganda campaigns directed at the eu's citizens and its neighbours. it also calls on the eu institutions and the member states to recognise that the ongoing information war is not only an external but also an internal problem for the eu. the european parliament also regrets that the eu is failing to adequately inform the european public about the actions, achievements and successes of the common foreign and security policy. it therefore calls on the council, the commission and the member states to close this gap and to make the eu's external action more visible and explainable. parliament recalled the eu's commitment to a common foreign and security policy based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in compliance with the un charter and international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the communication calls for more money to be allocated to this area, for the commitment to allocate 2% of gdp to defence, for enhanced defence cooperation and expresses support for the sanctions against russia.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the cfsp last year clearly shows that the eu is facing not only an internal but also an external crisis. crises in which the eu's voice is not heard, policies to integrate neighbours into european spaces that do not deliver results, growing tensions and a feeling of insecurity - these are just some of the signs of the failure of this policy. i supported this report, mainly because it allowed external relations officials to concentrate on their core work rather than rewriting the report, but it is clear that the eu will lose its remaining global role if current trends continue.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to review the state of play of the strategy on an annual basis. i believe that this consideration should take place in the context of the annual debates in parliament and should be based on the implementation report prepared by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the common agricultural policy (cap) measures to reduce price fluctuations in agricultural product markets. the dependence of farming on biological processes has led to uncertainty in related markets. the globalisation of trade in agricultural products also poses health risks (disease outbreaks) and risks of surges in supply or demand. they are driven by external factors related to the eu's external policies in the areas of trade, diplomacy or development cooperation, and thus entail even greater uncertainty and economic risks for the future. therefore, risk management measures in agriculture are receiving increasing attention. the growing interest in this topic is reflected in the gradual introduction of these measures into agricultural policy. the volatility of agricultural product prices is already a major factor in the current dramatic situation of many european farmers, and the current cap risk management measures are clearly not adapted to limit the impact of price volatility on farmers' incomes. the eu must find solutions to this phenomenon in the cap. in order to send a clear message to all citizens and to farmers in particular, the resolution seeks to limit itself to the fight against price volatility and clearly identifies three key steps needed to achieve this: strengthening the structure of supply chains and intensifying the conclusion of contracts; better protecting farmers' incomes by putting in place appropriate measures to manage the risk of price volatility; increasing market transparency by setting up price monitoring centres.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the cap measures to reduce price fluctuations in agricultural product markets. the cap has been characterised by strong market regulation. the cap was designed to guarantee prices. the price regulation ensured that farmers were guaranteed minimum prices for their products in the event of a crisis. however, over time, the cap has been reformed cyclically, and price regulation has changed significantly. the new risk management package is provided for in the second pillar (rural development) of the cap after the 2013 reform. the current risk management measures for the second pillar of the cap are therefore clearly not adapted to limit the impact of price fluctuations on farmers' incomes. in this context, i support parliament's recommendation to strengthen the current second pillar measures to increase the competitiveness of european agriculture and to involve producer organisations more closely in the implementation process.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the measures of the common agricultural policy (cap) to reduce price fluctuations on the markets for agricultural products. farming depends on biological processes and is therefore strongly affected by climatic conditions and plant and animal diseases. these natural factors are beyond the farmer's control. the development of farm performance is therefore much more difficult to define than for enterprises in other sectors of the economy. income uncertainty is particularly detrimental to investment and innovation and may therefore threaten the economic viability of farms. in addition, the seasonality of agricultural production leads to an inherent tendency for agricultural markets to fluctuate. it is widely recognised that too much volatility is not good for producers (market signals are expressed and therefore income is contingent) or for consumers (the choice of food products is altered). variability is a complex phenomenon with diverse and sometimes controversial origins. following a sharp rise in agricultural prices on world markets in 2007/08, they began to fluctuate strongly. this phenomenon has also been placed on the international political agenda because of its potential impact on global food security. in 2011, the g20 therefore adopted an action plan to reduce food price volatility and for agriculture, which led to the establishment of an agricultural product market information system to increase transparency in agricultural products markets. the market is likely to experience further uncertainty and increased economic and climate risks in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cap measures to reduce price volatility in agricultural product markets. i hope they will help to ensure price stability, food security and the competitive position of european farmers on the world market.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the eu has done a great deal of work in securing measures that have helped to increase the stability of agricultural prices. of course, the work is not yet complete and will have to continue, especially in the preparation of the new cap beyond 2020.
in writing. i welcome the fact that additional market monitoring measures have been extended to other sectors.
in writing. the 2015 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, presenting the work of the committee on petitions accurately and in detail. this report shall contain statistical data on the number of petitions received, completed or under consideration by the committee, the parties involved and the issues under consideration. the communication also addresses other aspects, such as relations with other eu institutions, national and regional authorities. the annual statistics for 2015 show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help in dealing with issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. some petitioners turn to parliament to make proposals for the development of european union policies, others to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against decisions of national courts. some citizens complain about gaps in the application of eu legislation inadequate transposition of legislation or non-compliance with european union rules. the committee on petitions has the opportunity and the important task of maintaining a dialogue with citizens following the recent events in the united kingdom, as it can bring the institutions back closer to eu citizens. the committee on petitions must hear and help to solve problems faced by citizens, because the adoption of petitions allows the impact of union legislation on citizens' daily lives to be assessed, because it increases the european parliament's capacity to respond, because it helps to solve problems that are essentially related to the application of eu legislation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the mass graves in iraq hint at the true scale of the inhuman atrocities committed by so-called isis and daesh criminals against civilians in the middle east. i strongly condemn these murderous acts. allow me to express my most sincere condolences to the families of the victims. we need to stop impunity and ensure accountability as the new graves are being discovered. a transparent and impartial investigation against war crimes and crimes against humanity should be started. i call on the iraqi government to ratify the rome statute and to extend its cooperation with the international criminal court. an international criminal tribunal should be established by the united nations and all possible assistance from the eu guaranteed. i think those atrocities which have been committed cannot be forgotten, indeed all colleagues who have spoken before emphasised this.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas or whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). visa policy is an essential element of the european union, affecting both external action and internal security. the evolution of the political and migration situation has led to the need to review the suspension of the visa waiver mechanism in order to make it more favourable and flexible, while ensuring that the eu is able to respond to a variety of exceptional circumstances arising from: a significant and sudden increase in the number of illegal third-country nationals residing illegally on eu territory; an increase in the number of unjustified asylum applications from third-country nationals; threats to security in the european territory. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that the renewal of the visa requirement for third-country nationals is one of the most stringent policy measures that can be taken. i agree that this measure must be applied in conjunction with strong guarantees and the protection of human rights, including on the basis of statistical reports provided by european agencies and competent forces and law enforcement authorities. this will ensure the rights of third-country nationals and guarantee the application of the principles of the community visa policy. the amendments to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 of the european parliament and of the council adopted on 11 december 2013 have identified essential aspects, such as the suspension of the visa waiver mechanism, which is now being amended.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the lists of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). visa policy is an essential element of the european union, affecting both external action and internal security. it is so important that it clearly establishes that in the legislative field the legislators share competence through the ordinary legislative procedure. the reciprocity mechanism, which outweighs the suspension mechanism, was amended by an interinstitutional agreement, the legality of which was confirmed by the court of justice of the eu on 16 july 2015. this court judgment provides the basis for the proper use of delegated and implementing acts, thus ensuring an institutional balance. the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular in the light of the recent visa liberalisation processes, has led to the need to reconsider the suspension of the visa waiver to make it more favourable and flexible. it is clear that elements must be provided to enable the eu to respond to a variety of special circumstances. however, this flexibility must be accompanied by robust safeguards and human rights safeguards, as well as statistical reports from european agencies and competent forces and law enforcement authorities. only in this way will it be possible to safeguard the rights of third-country nationals and guarantee the application of the principles of the community visa policy.
in writing. - i voted yes. in the light of the migration crisis, there was a need to review the suspension of the visa waiver to make it more favourable and flexible. this will enable the eu to respond to a variety of exceptional circumstances arising from the significant and sudden increase in the number of illegal third-country nationals residing illegally in the eu, the increase in the number of unjustified asylum applications by third-country nationals, the threat to security in the european territory.
in writing. ‒ this mechanism is a very important instrument of the european union's foreign policy. it is very important that the revision of the mechanism does not harm our friends and colleagues in europe's neighbours who have chosen a european orientation. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to closely monitor the progress of this review and to ensure that at least certain categories of citizens in countries such as georgia continue to benefit from the visa-free regime.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i and v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. having regard to the opinion of the european food safety authority and to the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development, parliament hereby expresses its position that the draft commission implementing directive is contrary to the objectives of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 by weakening the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits resistant to harmful organisms, in particular those causing citrus pests and citrus cankers. i support this position, accepting that the draft commission implementing directive is not in line with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to define the risk posed to plants or plant products by pathogens of any species, strain or biotype, by animals or by parasitic plants (referred to in the regulation as pests) and the measures to reduce that risk to an acceptable level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission implementing directive amending the annexes to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. directive 2000/29/ec will be repealed and replaced by regulation (eu) 2016/2031 on protection measures against pests of plants as soon as that regulation enters into force. the draft commission implementing directive is contrary to the objectives of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 as it weakens the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits which are resistant to harmful organisms, in particular those causing citrus spotted fever and citrus canker. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing directive is not in line with european union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to define the phytosanitary risk posed by pathogens of any species, strain or biotype, animal or parasitic plants harmful to plants or plant products (referred to in the regulation as pests) and the measures to reduce that risk to an acceptable level. in this context, parliament recalls that once regulation (eu) 2016/2031 is applicable (14 december 2019), it will be repealed and replaced by directive 2000/29/ec.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution. taking into account the opinion of the european food safety authority and the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development, parliament objects to the commission decision to relax the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits resistant to harmful organisms, in particular those causing citrus spotted fever and citrus cancer.
in writing. i consider that the draft commission implementing directive is not in conformity with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to define the phytosanitary risk posed by pathogens of any species, strain or biotype harmful to plants or plant products, animals or parasitic plants (referred to in the regulation as pests) and the measures to reduce that risk to an acceptable level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on aid for people affected by thalidomide. since 1957, when the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal placed thalidomide, an anti-nausea medicine also intended for pregnant women, on the european market, at least 20 000 children have been born with severe physical defects as a result of its exposure. in europe, there are more than 4 000 people affected by thalidomide, including 2 800 in germany, 450 in italy, 400 in the united kingdom, 400 in spain, 103 in sweden and about 90 in austria. the findings of the 2015 study 'health, quality of life and employment of thalidomide victims in the united kingdom' reveal the increasing physical and psychological problems faced by thalidomide victims over time, as well as their specific medical, financial and social needs. i voted in favour of the resolution on the need to fully recognise the claims of thalidomide survivors in europe in order to ensure their autonomy, access to healthcare and maintain a good quality of life. i support the need for victims to be compensated for the necessary but costly and growing costs of their health care.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament draws attention to the fact that the parliament and the european commission are now able and willing to remedy, in the light of ethical and humanitarian standards, the damage caused by the failure of pharmaceutical controls and subsequent suppression of evidence, which led to the thalidomide tragedy. the parliament also notes that in june 2016 the german federal government recognised the need and the possibility to amend the german legislation on the thalidomide fund by january 2017. parliament therefore urges the member states and the commission to take coordinated action and measures to officially recognise and compensate those affected by thalidomide. calls furthermore on the german federal government to make use of the possibility provided by the forthcoming legislation on the partial amendment of the thalidomide fund to allow thalidomide victims recognised as such under court-appointed trust schemes or beneficiaries of national government schemes to access the special german health fund thalidomide fund for the disabled. parliament also urged the commission to develop a framework protocol at european level to provide equal compensation to all european citizens affected by thalidomide, regardless of their member state of origin, and to develop an eu programme of aid and support (including financial and social support provisions) for thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on support for people affected by thalidomide. the resolution calls for the use of this medicine to ensure access to health care services for those affected and to maintain a good quality of life, and for compensation to cover the necessary but costly and growing costs of their health care.
in writing. ‒ the long-running poisoning scandal has exposed the many gaps in the current system for controlling chemicals. i supported this proposal and i am convinced that if the eu has failed to protect against such substances, then at least we must take care of the victims of our negligence and invest in ensuring that such cases do not happen again.
i believe that full recognition of the claims of thalidomide survivors in europe is necessary to ensure their independence, access to healthcare and maintain a good quality of life.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the regulation on paediatric medicines. the paediatric regulation has had a major impact on the development of paediatric medicines, there has been a significant increase in paediatric clinical trials and paediatric research projects, and more quality information is now available on the use of approved medicines in paediatric medicine. the regulation has helped to improve the overall situation, with tangible benefits for the treatment of a wide range of childhood diseases. however, in some areas, notably paediatric oncology and neonatology, there has been insufficient progress. i therefore support the call in this resolution for the commission to submit in a timely manner the report provided for in article 50 of the paediatric medicines regulation and the request that this report describe in detail and thoroughly examine the current barriers to innovation in paediatric medicines. i also voted in favour of calling for amendments to the regulation, based on those conclusions, taking due account of the development plans for paediatric medicines, which are based not only on the type of disease but also on the mechanism of action of the medicinal product, on disease and drug prioritisation models, taking into account unmet medical needs in paediatrics, and finally on incentives to encourage more research and to better meet the needs of the paediatric population, ensuring the evaluation of the costs of research and development and full transparency of clinical outcomes.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the european parliament's debate on the use of medicines in paediatrics. parliament called on the commission to submit in due time the report provided for in the paediatric medicines regulation and stressed the need for this report to describe in detail and to examine in depth the obstacles currently hampering innovation in the field of medicines for paediatric populations. it also stresses that such a reliable information base is essential for the formulation of effective policies. parliament urged the commission to consider, on the basis of these conclusions, the possibility of making amendments, including in the context of the legislative review of the paediatric medicines regulation. those amendments shall take due account of: (a) development plans for paediatric medicinal products based not only on disease types but also on the mechanism of action of the medicinal product; (b) disease and drug prioritisation patterns taking into account unmet medical needs and capabilities in paediatric medicine; (c) previous and more forward-looking paediatric research plans; (d) incentives to increase the incentive to conduct research and to better address the needs of the paediatric population by ensuring the evaluation of research and development costs and full transparency of clinical outcomes; and (e) strategies to avoid the use of medicinal products in paediatric medicine outside the scope of the authorisation of paediatric medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on paediatric medicines. the paediatric regulation has had a major impact on the development of paediatric medicines, with a dramatic increase in paediatric clinical trials and research projects in the field of paediatrics. however, it is noted that progress is not sufficient and that more funding and effective mechanisms are needed to promote research and progress in paediatric oncology.
in writing. ‒ medicines used in paediatrics need to be subject to particularly strict controls. it's about our future, the health of our children. that is why i have supported this well-balanced document.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the activities of the committee on petitions 2015. the 2015 annual report is intended to give an overview of the work of the committee on petitions. the committee’s work programme is being established by citizens as they exercise their right to petition parliament and share their concerns over various eu policies and legislation. the annual report aims to give a precise and full view of the work done by the committee, it provides statistics on the number of petitions received, dealt with and closed by the committee, the countries concerned and the matters raised. the 2015 annual statistics show that most citizens turn to parliament for assistance with matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. the committee on petitions must listen to and help solve the problems affecting its citizens because, through petitions, it can assess the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives while making parliament more responsive. through the committee on petitions we must work to regain the trust of citizens by listening to and solving the problems that concern citizens.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's examination of the 2015 annual activity report of the committee on petitions. this report shall contain statistical data on the number of petitions received, completed or under consideration by the committee, the parties involved and the issues under consideration. these statistics are an important tool for evaluating the committee's work on a numerical basis. the communication also addresses other aspects, such as relations with other eu institutions, national and regional authorities. the 2015 annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help in dealing with issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. some petitioners turn to the european parliament to make proposals for the development of european union policies, others to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against decisions of national courts. some citizens complain about gaps in the application of eu legislation inadequate transposition of legislation or non-compliance with european union rules. in 2015, as in 2014, the most active petitioners were still germans, with a slightly lower level of activity among italians and spaniards. the following are citizens of romania, poland and the united kingdom. last in line are the citizens of malta and luxembourg, who submitted only five petitions in total in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. i believe that this committee plays an important role in ensuring that the ep is transparent and open and that citizens have the opportunity to express their views on issues of concern to them.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on international aviation agreements. in the european aviation strategy, the commission proposed to open negotiations on eu-level aviation security agreements with japan and china and eu-level air services agreements with china, turkey and the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean. international agreements in the field covered by the ordinary legislative procedure require parliament's consent. similarly, when the commission negotiates agreements between the union and third countries or international organisations, parliament must be kept promptly and fully informed at all stages of the negotiation procedure for international agreements. in order to be able to decide whether or not to give its consent at the end of the negotiations, parliament must monitor the process from the outset. i am of the opinion that parliament should be kept informed at all stages of the negotiations on a regular basis and, if necessary, in confidence, from the outset, of the progress of the process and that this information should be made available to parliament in such a way as to allow it sufficient time to express its opinion if necessary. parliament, in turn, must ensure that the full confidentiality of the negotiations in progress is maintained when it receives confidential information.
in writing. ‒ ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with international aviation agreements. in the european aviation strategy, the commission proposed to open negotiations on eu-level aviation security agreements with japan and china and on eu-level air services agreements with china, turkey, the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and the association of southeast asian nations (asean). the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on aviation security agreements with japan and china and on eu-level air services agreements with asean, turkey, qatar and the united arab emirates. international agreements in the field covered by the ordinary legislative procedure require parliament's consent. the european parliament expects the commission to inform the responsible committee of the parliament of its intention to propose negotiations with a view to concluding and amending international air services agreements and expects the commission to reach agreements with the council and negotiating partners to grant equal access to all relevant documents, including negotiating directives and consolidated texts, to members of the european parliament, together with the council. parliament recognises that it is obliged to ensure that the full confidentiality of the negotiations in progress is maintained when it receives classified information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on international aviation agreements. in the european aviation strategy, the commission proposed to open negotiations on eu-level aviation security agreements with japan and china and eu-level air services agreements with china, turkey and the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean. international agreements in the field covered by the ordinary legislative procedure require parliament's consent. similarly, when the commission negotiates agreements between the union and third countries or international organisations, parliament must be kept promptly and fully informed at all stages of the negotiation procedure for international agreements. in order to be able to decide whether or not to give its consent at the end of the negotiations, parliament must monitor the process from the outset. i am of the opinion that parliament should be kept informed at all stages of the negotiations on a regular basis and, if necessary, in confidence, from the outset, of the progress of the process and that this information should be made available to parliament in such a way as to allow it sufficient time to express its opinion if necessary. parliament, in turn, must ensure that the full confidentiality of the negotiations in progress is maintained when it receives confidential information.
in writing. i would stress that in order to be able to decide whether to give its consent or not at the end of the negotiations, parliament must monitor the process from the outset.
