president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to present to you a brief and incomplete report on the luxembourg presidency of the council. as you know, this presidency has been held in a particularly difficult and often dramatic context. the union is facing unprecedented challenges, including finding answers to the financial and economic crisis - an area where things are getting better but caution is still needed - the growing instability at its borders and the temptations to retreat to national territory that are growing alarmingly in europe. as if this were not enough, two particular phenomena have been added to an already very difficult context, namely the migration crisis and the rise of terrorism in the world, but also more particularly in europe, during the attacks in paris last year. the presidency has tried to react quickly and concretely to both of these questions. as regards the migration crisis, i shall not go into detail here on the various measures taken both in terms of the responsibility of the member states and in terms of solidarity between the member states, knowing that it was and will continue to be appropriate to ensure a dignified reception of refugees in need of international protection. these measures concern the resettlement and relocation of refugees, the establishment of a new policy of return and readmission and a reception mechanism through the 'hotspots', the definition of a new framework and, finally, the strengthening of the external borders of our union. all these measures were put in place in an emergency. some are only beginning to have an effect now; they are an essential part of a reform of our migration policy, which is certainly not complete. in this regard, we also welcome the proposals made by the commission in december 2015. however, the spring migration campaign is likely to resume this year with the same magnitude as last year. it is essential that the measures already decided on be implemented, because, even with the best will of the co-legislators, we can only support a reduction in flows if what has already been decided is also actually implemented. we all know that the integrity of the schengen area is at stake. the latter will only work if the rules governing it are respected. in this regard, we have called since november 2015 for the introduction of internal border controls to be made community-wide, where necessary, and not to leave the initiative or the last resort to member states to re-introduce controls at national level in an unordered manner. the schengen code has not yet been fully used and this will probably have to be done quickly. the priority right now is certainly to do everything possible to substantially reduce the flow of refugees, otherwise we risk losing public opinion. it is also high time to make relocation operational, and all member states must participate without delay. if real progress has been made in this context, more needs to be done and everyone must respect his commitments and responsibilities. it is also a question of solidarity between the member states, a solidarity which is at the political level and not at the legal level. solidarity in the history of our union is not just one-way solidarity: we must be able to give and not expect to receive. this solidarity must also be extended to the partner countries of the balkans and turkey. the balkan road conference and the action plan with turkey are showing the way, even if the realities on the ground are not yet up to the legitimate expectations of both sides. lebanon and jordan are also to be mentioned. the 2015 paris attacks represent the most dramatic moment in a security situation sharply degraded by terrorism in europe and beyond. we must avoid conflating the issue of migration with terrorism. it is also necessary to ensure that such amalgamations cannot be made too easily. we have tried to implement a whole series of measures already taken by the presidency in the wake of the charlie hebdo attacks, but the union may not have been quick enough to react at first. we should also welcome the fact that after three years of discussions the pnr directive has finally been adopted by the co-legislators. in this extremely difficult context, where measures have been taken on an accelerated basis, i must say that we have always been able to count on the european parliament, in particular on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. more generally, we have been able to move the european union forward thanks to the support and constructive approach of the european parliament. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you today not only for the excellent cooperation over the last six months but also for having made a decisive contribution to moving the union forward on a whole series of key issues at the very heart of the presidency's agenda. among the 36 cases concluded under codecision, let me mention above all the agreement on the 2016 budget, an agreement on the reform of the court of justice of the european union, the establishment of a european system for the collection of passenger data, the directive on strengthening the presumption of innocence, the simplification of the circulation of certain public documents, an agreement on the proposal for a regulation on benchmarks and the agreement on the data protection package. the luxembourg presidency organised the first political dialogue on respect for and promotion of the rule of law in our union. the discussions of the last few months, and especially the events of the last few weeks, even the last few days, demonstrate the relevance of this process. this dialogue is only at its beginning and must be deepened in the coming months. it is not only in the field of internal affairs that we have had to resolve to hold extraordinary meetings. this was also the case in dealing with the crisis in the dairy and pigmeat sectors and the difficulties faced by the european steel industry as a result of unfair trade policies in third countries. as far as trade is concerned, some progress has been made: progress has been made on the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states, on the future ttip agreement, and i would also like to thank president schulz for the meeting we organised together in brussels with the social partners to discuss this ttip. we have brought the social partners of the 28 european countries together because, for us, ttip must not be an agreement that sells the values and the trust that citizens have placed in us over all these years, but it must also be seen as an opportunity and it is therefore important to conduct the necessary negotiations in full transparency. while the wto ministerial conference in nairobi marks the end of the doha round, some progress has also been made at the multilateral level. we wanted to modernise the competitive working methods and focus our work on the establishment of a stable and investment-friendly regulatory framework in line with the juncker plan. it is with the aim of mobilising investment finance that we have also adopted, in record time, a general council approach to securitisation as the first building block of the capital markets union. it was also within a very short time that the council was able to agree to the directive on the exchange of information on tax returns. this agreement sends a strong signal to the rest of the world on tax transparency. in the field of taxation, the council adopted important conclusions on the oecd beps initiative on combating base erosion and profit shifting. the deepening of the social dimension of the union and the establishment of genuine social governance, as is the case in economic and financial matters, has been and remains an objective of luxembourg. we have made progress in this direction in the last six months, although much remains to be done. i also believe that we have made progress in the field of sustainable development by coordinating european efforts towards the 2030 agenda, but also, of course, through the contribution of our union, in close cooperation with our french friends, at cop 21 in paris: a first universal and binding agreement on the fight against climate change. we have also worked towards the establishment of a reliable, transparent and robust governance of the energy union and the promotion of a sustainable energy transition. we have completed some projects, such as the work on two important parts of the fourth railway package, namely the liberalisation of rail passenger services and the objective of strengthening the governance of rail infrastructure. we have started the huge project of the digital single market initiated by the commission. the establishment of the latter is a condition for the completion of the internal market, which will also require a wider application of the principle of mutual recognition. let me also say here that i am personally, as the telecommunications minister of my country, a little pleased that the co-legislators have agreed on the proposal for a nis directive which will strengthen the security of computer networks in the union. there is still a lot to be done at that level. it is sad to see that the european union is effectively caught between the united states and asia, and that our young talents who want to succeed are often forced to leave our continent - which imposes 28 different regulations on young people who want to get started - in order to gain recognition. mr president, i said earlier how good cooperation between the council and the european parliament had been under our presidency. we have completed the budgetary conciliation five days before the deadline; as far as we remember, that's a record. i believe that we, parliament, the council and the commission, have also set the conditions for a more harmonious functioning of the institutional triangle through the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking of december, a political agreement at this stage, but which we hope will come into force soon after your assembly has taken a decision before the beginning of spring. the agreement also aims to modernise the european legislative and regulatory processes in the sense of greater transparency, but also to reduce the administrative and budgetary burden on what constitutes the heart of the european economy, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. in these times of crisis, it is common to denigrate the european project, and even the most enthusiastic of us wonder what the way forward should be. let us not forget, especially for the younger generation, to remind the project of peace that we have lived every day since 1957. i was lucky to be luxembourgish, to study in france, to do an erasmus in greece, to have discovered things i would not have known if i had been born later. as a student in thessaloniki, taking the car to go to skopje, to go to bulgaria, to go to turkey, having borders closed, having to disinfect the car, having to stop at a customs, having customs closed - things that young people today don't know. i've been to the exchange offices, i've had to make a few trades. we complain, but we forget to remind our young people what europe is also about: rights, freedoms, the chance to fall in love with someone who does not have the same passport, to be able to be cared for, to be defended. it is very important to remind all of this on a daily basis, especially to the younger generations, and to stop denigrating this whole project for which we are fighting. from the point of view of my country, it is urgent to continue along the path of european integration, because that is where the solutions to the crises facing europe lie. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly more to be said, but time is running out. my country is happy to have been able to preside over the council of the union for the twelfth time. he has had your support, for which i thank you, and let me also thank all the officials, whether they are with you, with the commission or with luxembourg, for the work they have done. i'm making this speech today, but they're the ones who have done a masterful job over the last six months and let me thank them on behalf of all of us.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, since we last met, new atrocities have been committed in istanbul and jakarta. our democracy, as represented by this parliament, and the values that underpin it, are stronger than the threats of terrorism. such acts will never dictate our course, and we will certainly not be intimidated by the terror that lies ahead. we will continue to work to preserve our freedoms, our way of life, our way of being together, in short, all of humanity. as regards the luxembourg presidency, mr president, i would once again like to express my full support for the luxembourg government, its prime minister and all the ministers who have accompanied him. his presidency has done a very good job and has shown - and this is still true in the case of luxembourg - that the main thing is not quantity but quality, which can certainly be improved, but still, the remarkable quality of the luxembourg presidency. and that has always been the case throughout history. the luxembourg presidency, as you will recall, was able to conclude the single european act in 1985, which gave birth to the internal market. the luxembourg presidency in 1991 led the first part of the intergovernmental conference on economic and monetary union. in 1997, it was the great decision on enlargement that allowed the two lungs of europe to breathe together, and so on. the tradition was therefore strongly established, and the government which held the presidency proved worthy of the rich past it had inherited. the presidency has had to exercise its powers under particularly difficult conditions. it has succeeded in tackling the issue of migration by fostering a constructive dialogue between 28 different national realities, which are often diametrically opposed. it also closed key cases which had been deadlocked for too long, whether on the subject of air passenger files or data protection. and i could go on, mr prime minister, with the list: the intergovernmental agreement you mentioned, the importance and scope of which are underestimated, the elegance with which the luxembourg government managed the work at the climate conference in paris; the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european parliament's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the the european union is a great example of the kind of achievements that we do not often mention but which are part of the recent history of the european union. as regards the refugee crisis, under the expert and often very informed leadership of minister asselborn, and with the support of your parliament, agreements were quickly reached on the commission's proposals for the relocation and resettlement of refugees - agreements, alas! adopted by the council but not yet translated into reality. we have also made progress, albeit too little and too slowly for the taste of some, on other points: the operational implementation of the first 'hotspots', better coordination between the countries on the balkan route, or an action plan with turkey, and we have been able, thanks to the presidency, to establish greater virtuous, necessary and useful cooperation with our african partners. today, ladies and gentlemen, we have new tools to deal with the urgent need for migration more efficiently and in an orderly manner. other innovative tools will have to be put in place, particularly those relating to the common external borders, by providing us with european agreements, border guards and coast guards. but let us not be delusional: better management of migration in all its aspects is a long-term task. we must not give up and we must continue the work that the luxembourg presidency has usefully begun. 'hotspots', relocation, european coastguard and border guard corps: all these elements go together. they're inseparable from each other. all these measures will enable us to reduce the flow of migration and thus to remove the risks to the schengen area, because there are very great risks, even survival risks, to this area. today we are happily reintroducing border controls. tomorrow we will see that the economic cost is considerable and the day after tomorrow we will ask why we have a single currency when we no longer have freedom of movement and the internal market. the european union is therefore threatened in certain respects, both in its foundations and in its extensions, which could have gone much further than what we are seeing today. despite all these difficulties, despite all these problems, the luxembourg presidency has successfully managed to preside over the council, because it has lost sight of the big picture. they can break many hard knots with a great deal of negotiating skill and with the help of their hands and their heads. the new european data protection regulation is another example. the data protection rules are therefore in the best interests of the luxembourg public. the commission has taken up these in its programmatic priorities, and the luxembourg government has brought the data protection basic regulation into line. this is also an exemplary, fast patriotic achievement of the luxembourgers, for which i would like to thank prime minister bettel very warmly on behalf of the commission. all in all , this ratsvorsitz was a success . there is not a single abstract to be made, and the luxembourg government, together with the many hands that have worked with it, can be proud of what has been achieved. that's what you said!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small countries are capable of being good presidencies. luxembourg has just demonstrated this once again, with its institutional experience of several decades. of course, the nature of the presidencies has changed a great deal since the treaty of lisbon, which replaced the rotating presidencies with the permanent presidency of the european council and the presidency of the foreign affairs council. but there is still the european legislation, proposed by the commission, which then has to be negotiated, patiently, article by article, and here the solid work of luxembourg officials has been able to advance dozens of dossiers. i am thinking, for example, of the reform of the court of justice of the european union, the interinstitutional agreement, the railway package, data protection, the pnr file and so on. it was a perfectly mastered job, executed with skill, with commitment, done in the interests of europe. the luxembourg officials and those who have helped them - and there were many of them - should be thanked. the government has been able to keep track of the files. foreign minister jean asselborn was on all fronts. his commitment was noted and appreciated, as was that of the minister for european affairs, nico schmit, who was at the disposal of the european parliament. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is a key element of the union's external relations. thank you very much, everyone. otherwise, it was an unprecedented and unending crisis. the crisis in greece has been almost eclipsed by the crisis of refugees and terrorism. in many member states we have seen the rise of nationalist populism, selfishness and a clear lack of responsibility for the common future of our continent. the presidencies cannot do much about these serious problems. they pass, but the crises remain. may 2016 bring a change of direction in line with the founding texts of the union. the texts speak of cohesion, respect, solidarity; they speak of a europe that is moving forward, and this is what we call our wishes.
i am sure that the luxembourg presidency will be able to do more than that. i am sure that the luxembourg presidency will be able to do more than that. as a member of the european parliament, i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency for the past six months. while the union was and still is facing enormous challenges, it was necessary to respond to the crises that threaten our european values and the cohesion of the union. this was done with panache by the luxembourg ministers jean asselborn, a tireless traveller for peace and our freedoms, and nicolas schmit, who spent his nights here in the european parliament. that was well done. but i particularly appreciated the work that was done on the less spectacular cases. i will not list all the cases which have been closed, but they have been pending for months, even years. the work and cooperation between the council, represented by the presidency, and the european parliament has been exemplary. this is probably due to the commitment of the luxembourg government, but it is also, and perhaps more, due to the commitment of the civil servants, those who have worked in luxembourg and those who have worked here in brussels, the permanent representation, to whom i would like to express my particular thanks. i can only hope that the next presidencies will show the same readiness, the same commitment and the same spirit of solidarity in the interests of the european union, which is in great need of it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council of the union, when you presented the priorities of your presidency, many of us told you that the six months of work of the luxembourg presidency would coincide with a precarious internal situation and an extremely difficult external situation. at the end of your presidency, we see that the crises that existed in july have become existential for the european union. they remain existential because our member states are not prepared to give the european union the powers and means to solve them. it is all the more comforting to see how your presidency has succeeded in meeting the important challenges. the 2016 budget, for example, was adopted unanimously in record time. the successful efforts in the fields of internal affairs and justice must also be borne in mind. the presidency also contributed to the development of the climate change agenda; the same applies to the agricultural and social aspects. however, your great merit will have been to show that it is possible to move the lines, even if the results are not known in advance. it is true that despite these efforts and progress, some of our member states are still slow in showing solidarity in the face of major crises such as the refugee crisis. the indifference or even refusal of many of our member states to accept refugees adds to the burden on those who are willing to assume their responsibilities. we are ashamed to see many member states questioning important achievements such as schengen. there are no words to describe the homeopathic contributions of some in the search for a solution to the asylum seekers problem. germany is now taking in 24,000 refugees in one weekend, and other countries of similar size are planning to take in the same number over a two-year period. the real crisis at the beginning of 2016 is a crisis of solidarity. the inability to distribute the effort equally among the 28 does not bode well. the end of the presidency of a country known for its commitment to europe will not - i am sure - end its commitment to a more united and solidary union. we are counting on you, on your talent, on the competence of your staff - which no one questions - and on the experience of the member state you represent to take europe forward and give it a more federalist outlook. the future is sufficiently mortgaged by the inability to overcome intergovernmental cooperation, with its paralysing effect in which sovereigntists and nationalists of all stripes are recognized above all. our old continent deserves better. it deserves a european union that is free, strong, united and effective. if this is still a dream for some, mr president, i would like to tell them that this dream can only be realised by making a great federal leap forward.
mr president, i ask for a point of order. i have been informed that you are considering activating rule 175 to postpone the plenary vote on the trade in services agreement (tisa) resolution, and i would like to put to your consideration that the chair of the committee on international trade (inta), the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the major political parties all want to vote on wednesday. that is a solid resolution, so let us put it to the vote and not play it otherwise.
vivian reding, reporting for duty. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gpa remains unknown to the general public, even though it has been negotiated since 2013 with 23 countries representing 70% of trade in services. we will soon be subject to its rules, whether we take our phone, our credit card, the various means of transport abroad, when we surf social networks, on the sites of online commerce: no sector, from digital to transport to financial services, will escape. so we have no room for error. therefore, although the commission is leading the negotiations on behalf of the union, parliament - which controls the commission - will set out very clear guidelines. as the report on which this house will vote on wednesday shows, the stakes are such that meps have joined forces, over and above political divisions, to change the direction of europe's trade policy, both in the form and substance of the negotiations. in form, first of all, it's a real breakthrough. for a long time, the negotiations were conducted in secret. since the 2014 elections, things have changed, with the main political groups continuously monitoring each round of negotiations, as well as an intense dialogue within parliament, with the consultation of no less than eight parliamentary committees, and outside the institutions, with civil society in particular. at our request, the council's mandate and the european union's proposals for commitment have already been made public, and i would like to thank the commissioner for her help in this regard. with this report we want to go even further in transparency. the change is just as radical in the background. as elected officials, it is our responsibility to define which acs we want and which we don't. our message is clear: we want better international regulation, fair and sound regulation. more specifically, this report contains blue lines: more reciprocity in access to foreign markets, particularly in the telecommunications, transport and public procurement sectors, more rights for consumers against abuses such as roaming charges or junk mail, more benefits for our smes, and finally more participants at the negotiating table, where we can imagine having china too. we have just as many red lines. our public and audiovisual services must be explicitly excluded, our right to regulate fully preserved, our fundamental rights and the right to data protection safeguarded, the movement of people limited to temporary movements of qualified personnel under a contract. finally, there is often a mismatch between offensive and defensive interests. they're inseparable. there can be no agreement without protection and no protection without agreement. with 25% of global exports and a trade surplus of 160 billion, the european union can and must change the game by introducing fairer and stronger international rules. ladies and gentlemen, on wednesday you will have the opportunity to send a strong message to the negotiators that these negotiations are going in the right direction, in the interests of our companies, in the interests of the european citizens. voting against the report is voting for the status quo, that is to say, for the lack of reciprocity, for the absence of rules. voting for the report is voting for change, that is to say for transparency, for defending our values, our interests. voting for it means binding the commission by a clear parliamentary mandate. so let's take responsibility for this.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for this possibility to discuss this very important agreement that we are negotiating. tisa is an opportunity to create a global playing field for trade in services. that has great potential for the economy globally but especially for europe, because the european union is quite open to other investment – but we need as well to ensure that our companies can also invest abroad. the gats agreement really needs to be updated in order to take into account the new global realities and create, as some of you said, the legal certainty that is so important to get this right. because i absolutely agree, free trade is not something good per se; free trade is a means to create jobs, goods and investment. but of course it needs to be surrounded by certain regulations and certain rules. the aim is to make this a multilateral agreement. i fully share your concerns on this, and that is why the eu has been so eager to try to make the architecture as open and as inclusive as possible, so that gradually more countries will join, so that we can bring it under the premises of the wto. it is a fact that the gats agreement does not contain obligations to sign up to the ilo, but that does not mean that we are not pushing for this. the european union is always pushing for countries, in all kind of relations – including trade, of course – to sign up to the key wto conventions, and we are continuing to do this as well. public services – audio-visual services – are always excluded in our agreements. that is very clear in the mandate we have from the member states. it is very clear from what you have said today, but also earlier on this. public services such as education, health, water supplies and audio-visual services are excluded. they do not need to be privatised, and if they are privatised there is nothing in this agreement, nor in ttip or in any other agreement, that will prevent the local, regional or national level if there is a political decision to bring it back to the public sector if that is the political decision. also the right to regulate in a non-discriminatory way is not affected. authorities on all levels can legislate on, for instance, environmental and health standards as they wish, and this will not change. on transparency, as you have seen, we have really tried to make the eu contribution to this as transparent as possible. most of the eu proposals, and a summary after each negotiation round, are on line. you as meps have access to all documents. but this is a negotiation that we lead together with 22 other countries, and there is no way we can legally publish the proposals of peru, australia, new zealand, turkey, pakistan, etc. that has to be their decision. i deplore the fact that they have not chosen to be as transparent as we have, but we cannot publish this, and that is why sometimes proposals, even draft proposals from a given country, appear on the internet, leaked. that does not mean that they are actually part of the negotiation; it is a proposal or a draft for one country. many of these – you referred to some of them – have been immediately rejected by us and others as well. but we will continue to try to see if we can make this even more transparent and to make sure you are as included and as engaged as possible. in the end you will, of course, like the member states, have your say on this. we are negotiating tisa based on the mandate given to us by 28 countries, and you also had your say on this when it started. i am very mindful of the concerns that you have expressed here – we are taking them on board and we will continue to do so – and of the concerns that that many people have outside this whole house. but i am also very mindful that we still have huge unemployment in this european union, that millions of people are still without jobs, and tisa and other trade agreements are a way to create jobs and investment and growth in europe, which desperately needs it. so we need to find a balance there. i think that with your input in the resolution, the debate we will have and the continued negotiations – as i said, there is a round as we talk this week, and we will debrief you from that immediately when it is over – jointly we can make this agreement that finds the right balance that so many of you are asking for, and i will be happy to continue to engage with you. thank you ms reding for the fantastic work you have done to get such a broad majority, also all the other committees for your involvement in this, and the shadow rapporteurs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main political groups are taking matters into their own hands. the globalisation and digitalisation of our economies is a fact. the question is therefore: do we want europe to be a continent without taxes and the rest of the world a playground without faith and law? " the answer from parliament must be very clear: 'no, we want to write the rules of the game today so that we do not have to deal with them tomorrow. we want a deal that protects our businesses and our citizens, and yes, we want a change in policy". since the 2014 european elections, a new wind has been blowing on the european union's trade policy and, with this report, parliament is about to lift the big curtain. if our recommendations are followed, they will be a source of growth for europe, a competitive advantage for our companies, a safety net for our citizens. i therefore call on the political groups and the groups to maintain the strong support they have shown in the parliamentary proceedings. only a large majority in the plenary will lead to the european parliament's requests being taken into consideration. as the chairman of the international trade commission said in german... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
madam president, i am relatively content that the council seems to have resurfaced, because i was going to start by saying that on this sixth, seventh or eighth occasion that we are having this debate – and we will probably have 10 more – this house and the commission are in relative harmony of views about what should be done, how we should do it and the fact that we should act. it is the council, it is the member states, that simply do not manage to give themselves a line to follow and to act: be it in terms of joint protection of our external borders – because all our external borders are our joint external borders, they belong to all of us, and it is the member states that have to control them; be it in terms of resettlement of migrants all across the continent, where a number of our governments believe that they are just not concerned, and the others are therefore unable to take real action; be it in terms of the turkey fund or of the other funds, where we cannot permanently act as if the union budget gave us enough leeway to mobilise all the funds necessary. half of it depends on the member states, and the member states are simply not paying. they are paying in single euros, just as they are willing to resettle individual refugees, whereas we would need tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands, or in the case of the euros, billions. this is one of our problems today. in the framework of this problem today, populism is on the rise. i will conclude by saying that one of our groups, the conservative group – it happens to be them right now, but this goes for a very particular part of them – harbours members of parliament, one of them at least, who have tried to advocate that there should be a shoot-to-kill order on european borders. if this continues, we are in serious trouble, because some of their voters might try to take a gun in hand and act.
author. madam president, the constitutional provisions of a state protect citizens from the arbitrariness of its leaders. this trust is broken when these leaders stray from it. this is particularly the case in the democratic republic of congo. is the desire to postpone elections on the grounds that the constitution must be amended to allow the outgoing president to run for a third term an internal matter for the democratic republic of congo, or should the european parliament debate this in plenary? it seems to me that this should be the case. why would you do that? it should be remembered that the european union has been closely following the transition process in the democratic republic of the congo from the outset. it was the union that helped to create the conditions for the previous elections. it has thus helped to consolidate the democracy to which the congolese aspire. in this way, the european parliament is merely reminding the leaders of the democratic republic of congo of the road map for the democratization of their country, which they once supported. the congolese people will be grateful to us if we continue to refer to a process decided by mutual agreement.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank mr karim for his excellent report on the commission’s report for 2012-2013 on subsidiarity and proportionality. for the commission, subsidiarity and proportionality must be at the heart of the european democratic process: the very key to our objective of being big on the big things and small on the small things. we have committed to give real effect to the principle of subsidiarity and to work closely with national parliaments and other eu institutions to enhance our common understanding of subsidiarity and ensure that every proposal complies with that principle. national parliaments play a key role when it comes to monitoring respect for the principle of subsidiarity. in that regard, the report calls on the commission to deepen its relations with the national parliaments and to engage in a yearly debate with each national parliament. the juncker commission pledged to forge a new partnership with national parliaments, in particular by increasing the frequency of commissioners’ visits to national parliaments. since taking office in november 2014, commissioners have made more than 270 visits to national parliaments. the commission intends to continue the frequency of these visits, explaining what we do and why we do it and listening to the concerns of national parliaments. the report also suggests revising the guidelines for impact assessments. in may 2015 the commission adopted the better regulation package. this new framework includes a range of measures to make commission policy-making more transparent and evidence-based. it comprises improved guidelines, both for ex-ante impact assessments and the retrospective evaluation of already-existing legislation. the revised guidelines also include strengthened guidance both on subsidiarity and proportionality analysis, as well as a dedicated tool for the legal basis of a given proposal and its subsidiarity and proportionality aspects. furthermore, the package sets up a new regulatory scrutiny board responsible for reviewing the quality of impact assessments and of major evaluations. the board is also responsible for recommending improvements in case particular aspects, including subsidiarity or proportionality, have not been duly taken into account. this brings me to the comments in the report calling on all institutions to ensure that subsidiarity checks are also undertaken at the conclusion of the legislative negotiation before the adoption of the final text. the commission is very pleased that the three institutions have recently agreed on a new inter-institutional agreement on better law-making. the agreement puts renewed focus on ensuring that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are given full respect when developing union legislation and assessing its impacts. the agreement not only obliges the commission to explain in its explanatory memoranda how the measures proposed are justified in the light of the principle of subsidiarity, but now provides that the european parliament and the council will, when they consider it appropriate and necessary, carry out impact assessments in relation to any substantial amendments they make to the commission’s initial proposal. the commission is pleased that all the institutions have jointly committed to ensuring that subsidiarity is a key element throughout the legislative process. let me conclude by reassuring all members that the commission will make sure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality remain at the heart of the european democratic process. we look forward to working with the other eu institutions under the new inter-institutional framework to ensure that every piece of legislation respects the principle of subsidiarity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i think we all agree that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are important if we are to form a union that is close to the citizens. these principles are necessary and useful for the proper functioning of the european union, and i say well, the proper functioning. these principles are in no way intended to prevent the union from acting effectively. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be carefully balanced against the need for efficiency in the work of our institutions, so as to achieve a fair balance. i believe that the report as it is presented to us threatens this delicate balance, which is essential for the proper functioning of the union. and i cannot accept that the founding principles serve the purposes of the eurosceptics. in the name of respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, this report calls for the creation of additional steps in our legislative process. these steps add to the bureaucratic burden already placed on our institutions and the application of such procedures has the effect of slowing down or even blocking the european legislative process. we owe our citizens an effective union that takes account of their concerns, an efficient union that serves their interests, a flexible union that is able to respond promptly to the challenges it faces, an ever closer union between peoples that is able to react in a common way to circumstances with mutual respect. that is why, on behalf of those who believe in this european union, i call on my colleagues to support the amendments tabled by the s&d group which protect a balance which is so precious to europe. i say yes to subsidiarity and proportionality, but not at the expense of an effective union for the citizens. i think you have guessed, mr president, that i do not share the rapporteur's view on the principle and application of subsidiarity and proportionality, but i want to thank him for his fairness and for the good collaboration.
madam president, the first merit of this report is that it draws up an inventory of the various bodies in which europe participates, illustrating their diversity in terms of modes of operation, status and composition. i would like to thank sylvie goulard for taking the initiative in this report and i welcome the compromise she has shown, which will, i hope, at least allow a large majority to be obtained in the vote. it is a matter of sending a strong message to the commission, but above all to the council and the member states. we must improve coordination and ensure the cohesion of the union in order to defend our legitimate interests, not forgetting the less fortunate countries. we need maximum transparency so that we can trace the influences behind the decisions. we also need democratic control, debate in national parliaments, but also with civil society, which must be given the resources and the skills to conduct the discussions. finally, the union's representatives must be held accountable and ensure that the commitments they have made are respected.
madam president, the high representative said that the status quo will only lead to more violence. that may be so, but it is only so for one specific reason – that azerbaijan remains as much an aggressor today as it was 24 years ago. it has violated the ceasefire this time just like it kept violating the ceasefire on a lower scale for a very long period of time, and it does so because it is convinced that everything and everyone armenian in this region must disappear. this is the reason why it has never accepted anything the minsk group has been able to propose, because anything that it can propose is a compromise. azerbaijan does not want to compromise, just like the armenians do not want to compromise any longer with a country that elevates ramil safarov to the level of national hero. a brutal axe murderer sent back to the country by hungary should never have happened. the only thing that will eventually happen in this case is to recognise the independence of nagorno—karabakh. it was declared in full accordance with the soviet constitution applicable at the time; it was never accepted, and it is time to do so now.
madam president, in 2012 as the then commissioner for justice, i presented the legal text to protect the privacy of citizens and to facilitate data exchange for police work. four years later, after difficult negotiations with member states and after a fierce lobbying campaign, we have an almost unanimous agreement. i thank rapporteur philipp albrecht, i thank rapporteur marju lauristin and i thank all the colleagues in the european parliament, because this is a historic day for europe – a day which shows that if we work together we can deal deliver results for citizens, whose personal data will be better protected; for companies, to which we provide a market opener: one law for one continent as an international gold standard; and for security forces, which get more efficient access to data in order to fight crime and terrorism. today parliament lays the stepping stones towards a truly european digital market, and today europe shows that privacy and security go hand in hand. so thank you from all my heart to all those who have helped make this possible today. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– so far, in the history of the european union, the european court has always provided a helping hand. for years the european court has done everything in its power to help ensure that the directive which we had – which was not so well implemented in all member states – could go in a common direction. i am very confident that the european court will help us to have better legislation – better-applied legislation – and that it stands together with the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner and her teams for what she has done. the court is, together with the commission, a true controller that ensures that the treaties are put in place properly.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the bombing of the hospital in kunduz, afghanistan, a few months ago, claimed many lives, including the staff of médecins sans frontières. the president of the united states expressed his deep regret at the tragedy, emphasizing the gravity of the facts. we are all the more shocked that the gps coordinates of the kunduz hospital were well known to the american authorities. unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, as many patients and health-care workers have been killed. this is all the more reason to appeal to the conscience of our leaders at the next world summit on humanitarian aid in istanbul and to show greater respect for international humanitarian law. all efforts must be made to ensure full respect for the impartiality of humanitarian actors who are often willing to risk their lives by devoting their time, energy, know-how and generosity to finding solutions to the humanitarian challenge. our resolution aims to promote preventive and/or dissuasive measures in the face of the many violations of international humanitarian law. among these, the prohibition on the supply of arms to actors involved or likely to be involved in operations which contravene international humanitarian law. the need to launch independent investigations and bring recognized crimes to the competent courts, including the international criminal court, is also important. if we succeed in ending impunity in this area, we will be able to strengthen the authority of the united nations as the institution responsible for managing such conflict situations. before concluding, i would also like to stress the urgent need for our member states to finally honour their promises to finance official development and humanitarian aid.
madam president, among the many things that president erdoğan has recently said was the sentence ‘we are not doing this for a thank-you’. and i’d like to make it clear for us that, by doing this, we are not condoning the descent of turkey into authoritarian governance and into geopolitical adventurism. yes, in terms of refugees, turkey has done much more than what the european union was capable of. i hold that it can protect refugees in a safe manner. i also hold that turkey is entitled to have its citizens travel to europe in a freer and in a more dignified manner that has been the case so far. but turkey must now stop blackmailing us on the basis of this agreement; it’s only a start for the necessary deeper and more conclusive engagement with turkey that the european union is engaging in. finally, we should not close our eyes to the fact that, just after erdoğan’s words about not doing this just for a thank-you, turkey is supporting azerbaijan in an aggressive war in the caucasus which is fully illegal.
the commission has already done so. as regards the proposal on railway safety, i would like to say at the outset that the existing directive of 2004 already provided a good basis and that it was therefore necessary to continue this work on this basis. the technical specifications for interoperability, the so-called tsis, have already achieved a great deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the european railway agency will in future be responsible for issuing safety certificates for companies operating in more than one country. another point is the improvement of the safety culture through incident reporting. for example, staff may report problems or incidents on the condition of confidentiality. additional training and monitoring of the rules on driving and rest periods are also important. the technical part of the fourth railway package presented today will remove administrative and technical obstacles in the railway sector a long overdue undertaking. it will be of great importance to industry, and it will save time and money, it will promote growth and hence create jobs. we now have to put pressure on the member states to implement it so that it can be incorporated into national legislation as soon as possible. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who have contributed constructively.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by saying that, in my view, the summit is an opportunity the global community cannot afford to miss. on thursday, conclusions on the world humanitarian summit are expected to be adopted by the council. the presidency has been at the forefront of preparing a strong common position of the eu and its member states, obviously in very close cooperation with the commission and the european external action service. let me be clear. the council wants the world humanitarian summit to be a success. from july last year, the netherlands has put in place an envoy for the world humanitarian summit and this has enabled us to link up early with all key players: the united nations, humanitarian organisations, eu institutions, the member states and other un member states and stakeholders. let me mention some of the most important things the member states would like to come out of this summit. we would like the global community to recommit to the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. world leaders must also commit to addressing the root causes of humanitarian crises by stepping up their efforts to resolve conflicts peacefully and to prevent new conflicts from emerging. we want all actors, including those who have influence over parties to a conflict – all of them – to respect international humanitarian law. let me repeat what i said during our debate in brussels two weeks ago. violations, such as attacks on medical facilities and schools, are unacceptable. it will be crucial to keep international humanitarian law high on the international agenda, to hold perpetrators accountable and speak out clearly and publicly against serious violations. upholding international humanitarian law is also linked to a central theme of the summit: placing people at the centre of humanitarian action. so we must move away from drawing boards in capitals and truly listen to the affected population. and yes, we must also work towards eradicating sexual and gender-based violence and emergencies. at the same time, i would like to say that women and girls should not only be seen as victims, but as key partners who should be involved in all phases of the humanitarian response cycle. the presidency also believes that more efficiency in humanitarian assistance can be achieved by promoting innovation – innovation in financing humanitarian action, innovation in promoting the technologies and innovation in new partnerships. as an example of the latter, the netherlands is one of the founding partners of the global alliance for humanitarian innovation, which is foreseen to be officially launched in istanbul. let me also say a few words on humanitarian financing. the netherlands and other eu member states are among the top 15 global humanitarian donors. together with turkey, these donors were invited by the high—level panel on humanitarian financing to negotiate the grand bargain on aid efficiency with the 15 biggest humanitarian implementing organisations. we have lent our full support to the grand bargain negotiations. we hosted the first of the four sherpa meetings in amsterdam on 29 february and, in the course of the negotiations, we led, together with the world bank, the discussions on aid transparency. let me again thank the commission and the united kingdom for hosting the second and third sherpa meetings. the fourth, and last, sherpa meeting, hosted by sweden, is, as you most probably know, currently ongoing in new york. let us hope for a swift and successful conclusion of the meeting. as the presidency of the council, we would like to see as many donors and humanitarian organisations as possible sign up to the grand bargain and to its suggested commitments. in closing, i would like to thank parliament for your interest, your guidance and your advice. the summit participation of this house is a clear demonstration of your dedication and commitment. i am obviously looking forward to hearing a bit more about your views and expectations ahead of the istanbul summit.
member of the commission.– madam president, we are only twelve days away from the world humanitarian summit, a summit which is a unique – maybe a once in a generation – opportunity for us to make a lasting difference. to make history by sending a clear signal around the world that global humanitarian needs and suffering require urgent and collective action. the summit could not be more timely. the challenges we face are enormous. last year, humanitarians assisted over one hundred million people. displacement is at its highest since the world war ii. millions flee conflicts or leave their homes behind to escape disasters or climate change, and people are displaced for longer periods than ever before. the way in which we have been responding to growing needs is not sustainable any more. people affected by crisis need to live with dignity, rather than just receiving assistance. business cannot continue as usual. humanitarians continue their tasks under challenging circumstances, but other actors must step in as well: to make the humanitarian system more effective and efficient but also to prevent conflicts, reduce disaster risk and empower communities. it is no secret that we had higher expectations for bold political outcomes from the summit. nevertheless, i hope that we can ultimately deliver a strong vision for the future in istanbul. the un secretary-general’s ‘agenda for humanity’ is a very good basis for action. the european union remains committed to doing its part, in line with the call that was put forward in the resolution on the world humanitarian summit that parliament adopted in december. i also recognise your contribution to the formulation of our priorities. this is why i am particularly pleased that members of the european parliament will attend the summit. your participation is very important to us and we advocated with the un at the highest level to ensure your representation.as the european union, we go to the summit with a clear set of three key objectives. i would like to thank very much the dutch presidency for this and of course the previous presidency, the luxembourg presidency, and others. firstly, the lack of respect for international humanitarian law that we are witnessing today is simply unacceptable. civilians are targeted, medical facilities and schools are destroyed, medical and teaching personnel and humanitarian workers become casualties. we must stop it. therefore, we want the basic norms and values of humanity to be upheld and reconfirmed. we strongly advocate for the respect of international humanitarian law (ihl) and we want the summit to reaffirm its centrality. i particularly welcome the recent ‘resolution of the european parliament on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of ihl’, which echoes this priority. we also want more efficient and effective humanitarian action: cooperation rather than competition in the un system and among implementing organisations, and more flexibility and predictability of financing, involving of course also the private sector. to this end, we are engaged in the discussions to follow up on the report of the high—level panel on humanitarian financing. finally, we want to strengthen the humanitarian and development link and engage more strategically with partners. in particular, situations of protracted displacement call for a novel approach in order to ensure that affected people move from aid-dependence to self-reliance. this is the ultimate objective of a key piece of our commitment at the summit: our communication on forced displacement and development that we adopted on 26 april. we will address these key issues and we intend to deliver strong commitments. we expect other actors to do the same. for the success of the summit, political commitments at the highest level will be essential. these should pave the way for an effective follow—up, because the summit will not only be a culmination of months of consultations and preparations, but also the beginning of the transformation of the international humanitarian system, through, definitely, the implementation of our commitments.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, anyone attending major un summits regularly attends ceremonies of self-satisfaction. the international community has reason to celebrate the success of alleviating suffering in either crisis and to recall that disasters have been averted by humanitarian action. we should not, however, be blind to the three dramatic aspects which will affect the world humanitarian summit in istanbul on 23 and 24 may: first, the increasingly threatened security of medical missions; second, the multiplication of crisis centres accepted as inevitable; third, the increasingly dangerous nature of the humanitarian situation in turkey. thirdly, the gap between the commitment of the states, in particular the european union, and the actual results in terms of funding. as for the first point - the increasingly threatened safety of medical missions - is it due to human stupidity, the bad faith of warlords or both? the failure to respect the impartiality of humanitarian action is unacceptable. the states represented in istanbul would do well to put an end to these practices. as for the increase in the number of crisis areas, military intervention is not usually the answer. that is why diplomacy must be mobilized in time. not just any diplomacy, but the best diplomacy possible. the countries represented in istanbul would do well to remember this. the commitments made by the european union are generous, but they are regularly renewed for the simple reason that they have not been kept. for the member states of the european union, this is a question of credibility. the member states would do well to remember this. it is not enough to say that others - almost all others - are doing worse than the european union and its member states. for the twenty-eight, this is no reason to let down their guard in the face of the scale of the challenge. our hopes rest on the commitment of the presidency and our commissioner. good luck with that, christos!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i think we're in for asylum here. this is an internationally agreed right which is relatively difficult to quantify. we have no mechanism at our disposal to say with certainty in the future: only so many more can come. we shall be able to come as many as are theoretically entitled to asylum, and even those who have any hope of being able to obtain asylum with us. and that is why i think it is rather adventurous that the commission is only presenting us with a text in the second reading in which it says again: and what one does not want is redistributed to others who may not want it at all, and they pay a quarter of a million per head. a quarter of a million per head means: four heads make a million, 4,000 heads make a billion! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm not opposed to any of this happening. i think that one of the most sensible things that commission president juncker said before this house in a very subtle way was that we should actually get to the point where in the future someone would be seeking asylum in the union and not in any member state - so that would actually be the direction of the push. but to get there, i think we have to think the thoughts through at some point. and that means no fine helps at least no head-on fine! it will only help in the future if we tell those countries which do not want to participate in solidarity policies that they have a problem with the functioning of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, one of the public health priorities in 2016 is undoubtedly the conference on the refinancing of the global fund to fight aids. this is another appointment in addition to the one just referred to by the commissioner. the international community was called upon to face up to its responsibilities: to let down its guard in the face of the threat posed today not only by aids but also by other diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis would be shortsighted. the encouraging results achieved since the global fund was launched in 2002 make a strong case for continuing the fight against these diseases. it is to be hoped that not only the commission but also all the member states of the european union and all the industrialized countries will have a clear understanding of the priorities for global public health. in the case of aids in particular, those who in the past thought they had to oppose the development of therapy, that is to say, the access of aids patients to antiretroviral drugs, must have admitted that their excessive caution and fear at the time would have led us straight to a dead end. access to health care for all is no longer an illusion. it can become a lasting reality if we persist in the course we have followed since the early 2000s. the commission has taken its responsibilities, i said, and it is now up to the member states of the european union to do the same.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european parliament's committee on development is today presenting its third report on policy coherence for development. it is not necessary to repeat the same findings, the same analyses and the same proposals, since everything has already been said and repeated. in fact, cristian preda, whom i commend, resisted this temptation. the important thing is to remember the lessons, which should guide us in action. to this end i have tabled an oral amendment which, if implemented, would allow the president of the commission to decide in the event that two or more commission departments fail to agree on the way forward. it can be argued that the commission's inter-service meetings are there to settle this kind of conflict; the question is what to do in the event of an insurmountable divergence. in my view, there should be a higher level of arbitration: in this case, the president of the commission should be given the opportunity to assume full political responsibility for the broad guidelines. it could thus decide on the basis of the commitments made by the european union in the context of policy coherence for development. i would like to stress the importance of this oral amendment. indeed, not to adopt it, or, if necessary, to oppose it, would be to call into question a provision that the european parliament had already voted by a large majority in my own report on policy coherence for development, which was discussed here in plenary in 2013. the reason why a more coherent policy is less and less contested it is more and more accepted is now how we should concentrate our efforts and that is why i have tabled this oral amendment.
mr president, i propose the following oral amendment: 'the european parliament proposes that an arbitration mechanism be set up for the president of the european commission to ensure policy coherence and that in the event of divergence between the various policies of the union, it is for the president of the commission to assume full political responsibility for the broad guidelines and to decide in accordance with the commitments made by the union in the field of the cfp.' i will tell you why: if we accept this amendment, we are only confirming our position, which was voted by a large majority in 2013 in my report on the cpd. if we refuse to do so, we are depriving ourselves of an indispensable tool for policy coherence, particularly because of its capacity for arbitration, or, to use the words of our former colleague jean-louis bourlanges, if we refuse to do so, we will be contributing to the fact that the cpd will remain a sort of knife without a blade and without a handle.
madam president, it is not always a pleasure to notice to what degrees of surrealism debates in this house can turn. i had in principle the intention of starting with the statement that, judging by the number of references to the poor british taxpayers that have been made by right-wing british members of this house – who so far have not refused any single european subsidy for themselves – out of pure humanitarian concerns we should wish for them to vote to leave on 23 june, because after that maybe the british taxpayers will be reassured. more to the point, i would want to say the following. i would want to believe, high representative/vice-president, what you have expounded to us but i doubt that it is going to be enough. i doubt it is going to be anywhere near enough; maybe for a migration compact of some sort with a number of select african countries, that could work. but for the development of africa, for turning african fortunes around or for orienting african dynamism and growth into a different direction? i doubt it. the eur 500 million alone that we are supposed to take from the european development fund reserve is much less than the chinese are going to be investing in a single railway line from mombasa to central africa in the coming years. that shows the discrepancy between our intentions and what we are ready and willing to put on the table when the worst comes to the worst, or when action is called for in order to replace words. i would really wish for us to be able to finally contribute to an african renaissance, but with those means i am afraid it is not going to be good enough.
madam president, i have just one minute and i have to be sharp on energy efficiency and the circular economy. mr katainen, you are right. efsi is demand driven, but why is there only one circular economy project? why is the energy efficiency pipeline empty? why? first, it is because you have completely investment-hostile accounting rules for the local authorities. it is because they are on-book and they cannot invest through third parties. this is so counterproductive. you have known this for one year and you have not done anything. the second issue is that you have promised us eur 350 million of technical assistance, and we have eur 60 million because your services gave us the wrong information when we negotiated. i have proposed since september last year an energy efficiency hub for south-east europe to allow technical assistance from the structural funds to come into the scheme. no answer from the commission. so do not accuse me of not having done my work. i have done my work but it is the commission who will have to act to make efsi more efficient.
i'm the reporter. mr president, more than 14 million european citizens live in a member state other than their home country. to get married, to register a child, to produce a clean criminal record, they are forced to face tedious and sometimes costly procedures. it is not enough to produce an official document from the state of origin, but this document must also be accompanied by a stamp issued by an authority - this is called an apostille - together with a certified translation and, where appropriate, certified copies. yet freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights conferred by european citizenship. the need to make european citizenship more tangible was underlined by the stockholm programme in 2009. in order to strengthen confidence in the european judicial area, it advocated an action plan which included the abolition of the apostille. now, seven years later, we're almost there. the regulation on the simplification of the acceptance of public documents, which we are about to adopt, is a step - i must say a small step - towards alleviating these procedures, since it abolishes the apostille for documents covered by this regulation. these are the civil status documents: marriage, partnership, birth, certificate of life, death certificate, certificate of residence, electoral rights and absence of criminal record. multilingual forms attached to public documents will be used as translation aids and will allow citizens to save on certified translation. to reduce the risk of fraud, the text provides for the use of an imi platform, which is a system for the direct exchange of information between the different authorities. thus, if an administration has doubts about the authenticity of a document, it can contact the competent authority directly to verify the authenticity of the document. the day the platform is up and running, within the timeframe, it will significantly improve fraud detection. the period before entry into force is two and a half years. it is time-consuming, but necessary to ensure that the system is in place and that citizens are informed. we have fought in parliament to make it compulsory for the member states and the commission to inform citizens effectively about this new legislation. they should be explicitly informed of the abolition of the apostille and of the existence of multilingual forms, which are much cheaper than certified translations. parliament also had to fight to ensure that the cost of these forms did not exceed the cost of production or the cost of the original document. i would like to stress the revision clause in particular. a commission report will have to report on the application of the regulation, but also examine the desirability of abolishing the apostille for other documents. the european parliament has indeed agreed to this proposal, but it is not happy about it. we would have liked to go further and include in the scope a greater number of documents relating to companies, in particular their legal status, but also common documents such as diplomas, certificates of education, or the status of a disabled person. all these ambitions have unfortunately had to be relegated to the background in the revision clause. but i am sure that parliament will remain vigilant in the application of the regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, the compromise you have reached with the council will bring tangible benefits to our citizens. they will no longer need to spend time and money to have their public documents rubber-stamped by a second authority in their member state before they can show them to the authorities of another member state. i can only confirm that i also understand this as a first step on a long-distance run. you rightly pointed out that there is a lot of further work to be done. madam delvaux also mentioned that this long-distance run started with the stockholm programme. so over seven years ago it was clearly planned and foreseen that we need to do our best to cut red-tape and to decrease our administrative burdens on our citizens who travel and who want to live in another member state, enjoying the freedom of movement around europe. so i confirm that this is also my understanding, and we will use the review of this regulation for further work. i understand all of you who call for adding the documents related to education, disabilities and businesses. here we also want to encourage the companies and entrepreneurs to enjoy this benefit of free movement. so there is a lot to be to be done and i am looking forward to further cooperation with you and i want to thank you for your support on this current proposal.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would first like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs for their support and contribution and to apologise to mr rapkay because we have not been able to save his ambitious report, for which he had found a majority at first reading. the debates have inspired me. three points to note: firstly, it must be confirmed that this regulation is a modest but concrete step towards simplifying the lives of citizens, and i hope that other steps will soon follow. secondly, the imi platform, which creates a network between the administrations of the member states and thus allows direct exchange between the authorities, is, contrary to what has been said here, an excellent instrument for combating fraud, much more effective than the affixing of an apostille, a stamp, without being able to verify its authenticity. thirdly, i am convinced that this regulation is a great step forward if it is implemented and if it helps to create and strengthen confidence between the member states. we will need it if we are to create a european area of justice and promote the mobility of citizens in europe. finally, commissioner, i do not give up hope that we will soon have a proposal on the table which will not only allow public documents to be accepted but also to be recognised in other member states.
i'm the reporter. mr president, this is not the first time that this parliament has looked at the court of justice of the european union during this parliamentary term. as you know, for several years now the court of justice in luxembourg and, more specifically, the court of first instance have been in a difficult situation due to the constant increase in litigation. the number of cases brought before the court increased from 398 in 2000 to 912 in 2014. the unfinished business builds up year after year. five actions were already brought for breach of the obligation to act within a reasonable time. the total amount requested is almost eur 27 million, double the cost of implementing the reform. that is why we voted on 28 october 2015 in favour of the council's proposal to increase the number of judges in the general court to two per member state, to abolish the civil service tribunal and to include the seven judges of the civil service tribunal in the court of first instance. the regulation we are about to adopt is the second step - in short, the implementation of this decision. the purpose of the transfer is to transfer the judges of the civil service tribunal and, consequently, all cases pending before that court to the general court. in parliament we have made sure that there is consistency in this transfer and that there is legal certainty in the cases pending before the civil service tribunal. thus, pending cases will be transferred to the status quo and will remain subject to the same procedure. it is to be hoped that this reorganisation will add efficiency and quality to the work and decisions of the judges. we want to ensure that our citizens not only receive justice more quickly, but also that it is of a high quality. it is therefore useful to recall that we are calling for more cases to be heard by chambers of five judges instead of three and that we also want the court to organise specialised chambers. i would remind the member states that the european parliament has explicitly voted for gender parity in the judiciary and therefore reminds the member states today to ensure that this parity is respected in the appointments they are going to propose. mr president, i will be frank, the solution we have chosen is not the best. i regret that the member states have not been able to agree on a smaller increase in the number of judges and on a rotation system, but in the face of the council's inflexibility, parliament has taken its responsibilities. the european judiciary is in difficulty, and we must protect and defend it by giving it the means to function. it is a question of ensuring an area of justice in the european union, which is essential in a democracy.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i think that everything has been said in this debate. this is the second time in six months we've had this conversation. the positions of both sides have not changed. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that i have a very high regard for justice, for all courts, but above all for the court of justice of the european union. i am confident that it will be able to organise itself in the best way possible in the service of the union's justice. and once again i would like to remind the member states to pay particular attention to gender parity in appointments.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we support this resolution which aims to put an end to the indifference and the tragedies which regularly occur in the north-east of the congo. the five groups that signed it call on diplomacy, the political leaders of the drc and the parties to the conflict to put an end to the barbarity of which civilians, and above all women and children, are victims. the judgment delivered yesterday by the international criminal court in the hague in the bemba case justifies our also calling on all those responsible to gather sufficient evidence to bring to international justice the real perpetrators of the massacres in question. the un security council should therefore take account of the events which have recently taken place in north kivu, in particular to determine to what extent monusco could contribute to a better restoration of a situation which respects the most basic rights of the civilian population. the continuing deterioration of the situation in the drc is also a challenge for companies that acquire raw materials and, in particular, rare minerals. only a rapid entry into force of the regulations on minerals from conflict zones can help to put an end to the organized crime of which the predators are guilty, especially in the province of north kivu, who do not shrink from any base. the principle of non-indifference, so dear to africans, should guide us in our search for a solution to this tragedy.
mr president, i will concentrate on the renewables report, which is a good report apart from one bad sentence in paragraph 9. the question is that wind and solar have become much cheaper and more mature. does that mean that we can invest in renewable energy without any support? that depends on the markets and the status of the markets. today we have, because of the failure of eu ets, very low co2 prices, which means that we have a huge overcapacity in europe given that the coal power plants remain in the market. how can wind and solar be invested in if power prices are, in large parts of europe, at eur 20-25 per megawatt-hour? and do not forget that as long as we have not made major changes to market design, each time the wind blows and the sun shines wind and solar will cost less than the average power prices. so please vote with the greens on our split vote on paragraph 9. we cannot make renewable investments without having a revenue stream for renewables in this market.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. they say we have regulatory rage in vacuum cleaners. vacuum cleaners use up electricity. how can we do otherwise than to make a standard for chinese, european, turkish or whoever makes vacuum cleaners in europe? and that's what we're doing. it is the easiest regulation to make, and it is also extremely economically friendly because it is in favour of the internal market. i see. (the microphone is turned off.)
madam president, as tempting as it may be, i will refrain from reacting to a number of hateful confabulations against a certain member state which have been made this afternoon. i would simply like to reiterate an appeal to commissioner moscovici, who has not been very successful either here or in the commission. i wonder why, even after this debate, there is not even a hint of a desire to give the european company a tax status. it would be a european element of policy which could generate resources for the community budget, which is in such need of them, and it would probably even be a factor in european competitiveness in relation to our global competitors, in this race to attract what are called in good french corporate headquarters. i would be very happy if we could perhaps make a little bit of progress in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the content of this report and support the findings and recommendations made. we need to create more transparency and we need to combat tax avoidance and tax evasion. however, i had to abstain from voting in favour of this report, because i cannot agree with such a meaningful and important cause being discredited by pure allegations without any proof. this is the case of article 81. by referring to ‘allegations that luxembourg could be granting oral rulings in order to circumvent its obligation to share information under the directive on administrative cooperation’, this report does not only admit to spreading pure allegations, but also does a statement which is below the otherwise excellent work of the tax rulings committee.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i warn you, we have another two debates after this so our portuguese friends might leave us around nine, i guess. first of all, madam president, let me say that i am glad that after discussing earlier on the global strategy we now move to our eu strategy on china. some of you might wonder why we are working on so many different strategies or new strategies, and this is for a very simple reason. the world has changed and is changing very rapidly. for us as europeans, isolation is not an option and our action cannot be fragmented, cannot be unstrategic so we need to either update or to develop common visions and common paths for action that are in connection with the reality of today. our last communication on china dated back 10 years, so it was clearly time to come back to this because china has changed and also the european union and the world has changed. clearly our relationship with china, one of the world’s great powers, is a crucial issue for our future but actually it is a crucial issue for our present. next week we will be in beijing for the eu-china summit and a number of important china-related matters will need to be addressed in the coming weeks and months. this parliament knows very well, as the two most recent resolutions on china have shown, we are now in a different place compared with 10 years ago. first and foremost, china is much more of a global player than it was a decade ago. it is more confident, more outward-looking and more assertive. this new attitude has created some frictions and we all know that. asia’s security environment today looks more unstable than a few years ago but china has also sought stronger cooperation with other world powers, including with the european union on many different global issues. we have an interest in an open, stable and cooperative china, but china too has an interest – a huge interest – in good relations with europe. we are their biggest trading partner, and we are an important security provider in asia, from afghanistan to the philippines, so we have a lot to discuss, and we have a lot on which we can and should work together. there is no doubt we need to step up our engagement with china and this is the core principle of our strategy. european union engagement with china will be principled, practical and pragmatic. only if we engage will we be able to safeguard our interests and also our values in all sectors from trade to human rights. the communication identifies three main areas of cooperation and engagement. first, the prosperity and reform agenda; second, common interests on foreign policy and security; and third, global governance and the multilateral context. let me start with the economy. when we talk about a prosperity and reform agenda, when we talk about promoting a greater opening-up of the chinese market to european business, this is very much about creating jobs and growth in europe. trading and investing with china is first and foremost an opportunity for europe and for european firms. this part of our work, internally and externally, linking up the work we do inside and outside of the european union within the institutions is part of our work to strengthen and promote the european economy worldwide, and china is obviously a key actor in that respect. the strategy identifies opportunities such as concluding an ambitious and comprehensive agreement on investment, a chinese contribution to the investment plan for europe, joint research and innovation activities as well as creating new connections inside the eurasian continent, both physical and digital, to make trade, investment and people-to-people contacts faster and easier. as we focus on the opportunities it does not mean that we do not see the risks of this new phase and we all know very well that we are heading towards a delicate moment in our trade relations. china is becoming a more integrated member of the global community and this means it has to accept the obligations and not simply the benefits of it. in the meantime, we must also make sure that we act to shield our industry from unfair trade practices. china must make significant and verifiable cuts in industrial overcapacity, notably in the steel sector, but also on aluminium, ceramics and wood-based products. this is something i have made clear in all my meetings with our chinese counterparts including recently just last month in brussels, and we will pass this message very strongly next week in beijing too. it is first and foremost china’s economy which would benefit from economic reform, including the elimination of state-induced distortions. on our side we have to strengthen our trade defence instruments, in particular through the swift adoption of the commission’s trade defence instruments modernisation proposal. in this moment of history we cannot afford to be a conservative force. we must adapt to change and most of all, we must drive the change or at least try to do that. we need better rules to serve our citizens’ interests and we can promote reforms through constant engagement with the wider world. such reforms include the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and the role of civil society. this is the aim of our human rights dialogue with china and of the recently launched eu-china legal affairs dialogue, to support and accompany china’s legal reforms. i believe this kind of engagement can make both china and europe stronger, richer and safer. this is very clear when we look at the second and third pillars of the communication. in our fragile world, insecurity and instability in east asia can only spread to the rest of the world. the safety of maritime routes and the respect of international norms concerns the whole international community. so while our union is not taking sides on specific territorial claims in the south china sea, we have stated very clearly what our position is and that is based on our expectation of the full compliance with international norms, especially the role of unclos and a peaceful solution of any disputes is what we expect, especially in the days ahead. china is also an essential player in other issues. i have witnessed first-hand the positive impact of china’s responsible engagement in the negotiations on iran’s nuclear programme, and more – i think of beijing’s role during the paris conference on climate change compared with their attitude just a few years ago. china has an essential role to play in afghanistan. we will work together on this also in view of the conference on afghanistan we will have in brussels in october. it is a relevant actor in africa and in the middle east. we work together in the international support group for syria and in the un framework, obviously, cooperation is strong. on climate action, on migration, on development aid, on all this the question is not whether we need to engage with china but rather, what is the best way to do so. a big part of the answer depends on our union, on our unity and cohesion. none of our member states has the size, nor the power to engage, be it in a trade negotiation or in a commercial dispute, with china, leaving alone stronger diplomatic efforts on china’s role in asia or in the pacific, but as a true union as a european union as part of the global g3, as we are united we can surely do it.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to begin by expressing our appreciation for the presentation of this strategy, because indeed, since the last one, ten years ago, a lot has changed here in china and between here and china. so this presentation and strategy is very timely. china is becoming a global player and our interaction with it is now firmly encompassing all areas. in this house alone, and this year, more meps will have participated in missions to china than are currently in this chamber - which says a lot about both the presence in the chamber and the interaction with china at parliamentary level. i would like to touch briefly on a few specific points. i think our relations with china would benefit from being strictly european. ideally, we should end with the 16 + 1 format. we should also put an end to the epic so-called strategic partnerships that every european city has with china, which ultimately have only the strategic interest of china. we would need more economic connections, big deals, but also, of course, greater access to the chinese market. this is progress we have been calling for for a very long time. i shall not repeat parliament's position on china's status as a market economy. clearly, avoiding a trade war would be in everyone's interest, but that does not prevent us from making a strong statement to our chinese counterparts on all the issues that are close to our hearts, from taiwan to the law on ngos to the rule of law and the south china sea. finally, madam high representative, i would like to see even more of africa in this strategy, because this is one of the few areas where we can really come to a genuine win-win situation of african development which, especially for us, could prove to be absolutely vital. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to say to mrs grapini that i of course agree with the need for trade defence elements. but above all, i would like to tell him that it is not this house - and you know it - that is preventing progress on an anti-dumping policy package. it is not mrs mogherini either, but our friends and fellow legislators in the council who have been dragging their feet for a long time. this also concerns china, but not only, and progress in this area, which should be made primarily in the council, would be extremely beneficial.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are at a difficult moment in our power market in europe. why? because we are confronted with extreme over—capacities in most of the markets. why do we have these extreme over-capacities? because of the failure of the eu co2 trading regime. with co2 prices of eur 7 or 8 per tonne, and no prospect of that changing with the actual proposals on the table, coal power stations which, politically, europe decided to phase out when it adopted its climate package in 2008, will stay in the market. so what do we do in that situation? what are we saying in the langen report? the first thing is, do not go for capacity payments. it would be completely counter-productive. why should we pay the coal power stations to stay alive? commissioner, when you say that you want consumer orientation, in denmark there has been a very detailed analysis which says that a strategic reserve – so just keeping some power plants in reserve for an extreme moment, but outside the market – is ten times cheaper for consumers than capacity payments. why should we go for capacity payments if, firstly, they keep the old, dirty power plants in the market and, secondly, they are more expensive for the consumer? the very clear message which we are giving – and this is also thanks to the socialist group – is that we want to keep priority access and dispatch for renewable energy. why is that important? because when you have over—capacity in a market, there will be situations where you have to curtail, where you have to decide whether it is a coal power plant running, or whether it is renewable energy running. so you, commissioner, who was a champion in paris, how could you penalise renewals by taking away priority access and dispatch? because if we take priority access and dispatch away, then we will have a purely economic merit order of curtailment, and renewables will be the first to be shut down. do we want a market where renewable investments are penalised? i do not think so. look at our report, and think again; no capacity payments. if we need to think about something, then it should be more strategic reserve and, secondly, priority access and dispatch for renewables are necessary as long as the co2 market is a failure, and as long as we have such huge over-capacity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, one year of the vw scandal, which is in reality a scandal of the whole car industry. in april - may 2014, us authorities get detailed data showing discrepancies. they did not know anything about defeat devices. what did the us authorities do in that moment? they called in vw and asked them a very simple question: please can you explain the discrepancy between the test in the lab and your very high emissions on the road? one meeting, a second meeting, a third and fourth meeting, a fifth meeting: vw lied and lied and lied. fifteen months later in september 2015 us authorities say ‘it’s game over’ and vw has to admit massive fraud. then vw tried to carry out recall campaigns in the us. they proposed one recall campaign, a second one, a third one. the us authorities had one very simple question: please show us that your nox emissions are fulfilling the law after the recall. vw was not able to show that, not one single recall campaign was admitted, therefore action 3 came: compensation of consumers and huge fines for not having respected the law. so obama and his administration were merely doing their job. you have an industry which commits fraud, and they get caught. what have we done in europe? we had the same information as the us, years earlier. we had it in winter 2009-2010. the commission and member states did not once ask a manufacturer the same question that the us did: please explain to us the discrepancy between on-road and the lab. why still no infringement procedures? so the commission is part of this omertá . second thing: it is very interesting that the same vw recall campaign which was refused by the american authorities has now been admitted and waved through by kba; so vw is cheating against consumers, this time with the official logo of the german government. you come here today with no single action on recall. why do you not act on recall? you could act on recall. and the third issue is compensation. no compensation, so recapitulation: the juncker commission comes here and says ‘restore confidence’. no infringement procedures, despite the facts that you know. no action to restore, no action on compensation, so with that attitude of the juncker commission, we will not regain the confidence of citizens and we need it.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your own-initiative report and in particular the rapporteur, mr ferber, and the rapporteurs for the committee opinions, ms anderson and mr bach. postal services are an important sector of the economy. in 2014, over 500 million parcels and 64 billion letters were sent in the eu, but the sector is changing. in that same year, the number of letters sent across the eu declined by nearly 4%. in some member states the decline was much more severe. in denmark, for instance, it fell by 14% and in italy by over 9%. on the other hand, the number of parcels is growing rapidly, as a result of e-commerce. improving cross-border e-commerce is one the pillars of the digital single market strategy. i am very pleased that parliament agrees with the need for better and more affordable cross-border parcel delivery services. i will come back to parcels, but first i want to say a bit more about the postal services directive. as you know, we adopted our application report on the postal services directive at the end of last year. we concluded that close monitoring and further analysis of the market was needed, and we committed to publishing statistics each year. i am pleased to report that the latest eu postal statistics for the year 2014 were published on the commission’s website in june. the commission is also setting up an expert group on postal statistics. we are also working to automate the data collection process to reduce the administrative burden and to enable faster publication. the postal services directive requires universal service providers to deliver both letters and parcels on five days each week, except in exceptional circumstances. but as citizens move to electronic forms of communication and the number of letters declines, delivering each day is becoming more expensive. for example, the price for a 20 g letter rose on average by 7.5% last year. the directive gives a degree of flexibility on how member states may implement and apply the directive. this allows them to adapt to the changing needs of users and maintain the sustainability of services. for example, fewer member states now include bulk letter and newspaper or periodical services in the universal service obligation. and fewer member states now require deliveries on six days each week instead of five. universal service providers can be compensated for net costs they incur in providing universal services. this is important, but compensation should be limited to what is strictly necessary and should not distort competition. to help with the next cost calculation, in an annex to the application report we set out approaches to that calculation that have been found to be consistent with the directive. the draft own-initiative report recognises the fundamental role of independent regulators in the implementation of the postal services directive. in 2010 we established the european regulators group for postal services to help and advise us and to share best practices between european regulators. we really appreciate the work of the group on the implementation of the postal services directive and on cross-border parcel delivery. the group will also have an important role implementing that proposal for a regulation. now i come back to parcel delivery. as you know, the proposal was adopted in may as part of a package of measures to improve cross-border e—commerce. it is a targeted proposal to drive change in areas where the market and competition have not worked. it complements our 2013 roadmap and market-led innovation, such as a universal service providers programme to make their services interoperable and an information platform that is being part-funded through cosme. the regulation proposes action in three key areas. first, it will give postal regulators information about all the parcel delivery companies who are established in that member state, except for the smallest ones. this will make it easier for them to spot problems in the market. second, it will make the prices that individuals and small businesses pay more transparent, and require regulators to assess the affordability of those prices. third, it will require non-discriminatory third-party access to be offered to universal services providers’ cross-border networks. the proposal should help citizens benefit from lower delivery prices and choose from a wider range of goods, especially in remote and peripheral areas. it should also help small e-retailers get a better deal and help them gain new customers. parcel delivery companies, especially universal service providers, will also be able to benefit from a growing number of parcels. this can help to create or safeguard jobs, especially in remote and rural areas. finally, let me briefly mention employment, since this has been raised by parliament. as noted in your opinion by the committee on employment and social affairs, the postal services directive allows member states to reflect working conditions in their authorisation procedures. that means that member states and postal regulators can require that certain minimum standards are met. thank you very much and i look forward to hearing your views and to a very productive debate.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not i would like to thank my colleague markus ferber for his report. i'm interested in three things. firstly, and this is something which mr ferber has already mentioned, we must maintain the universal service in its present form. secondly, the role of national regulators is being strengthened. and thirdly, we have to look at the impact on the employees. this sector is changing and this obviously has an impact on the people who work in it. the traditional providers have managed to retrain people. that was pretty well handled. unfortunately, we must note that new forms of employment contracts have entered the postal sector. there are wide differences in working conditions and precarious contracts: parttime work and temporary agency work are on the increase. it is important to us as the employment committee to ensure that workers continue to have decent working conditions, good social security, health and safety at work, and adequate pay and working hours. i would also like to emphasize the good cooperation with the social partners and the objective of ensuring that in future the increase in competition does not come at the expense of the workers.
author. mr president, zimbabwe would have everything to succeed economically, socially and politically if there were no major obstacle. this obstacle is called mugabe, who acts on the principle of "i'm here, i'm staying, and when i'm not here, it's going to stay in the family". with the system locked down, there is little chance of immediately correcting a completely rotten situation. my group supports the measures proposed in this resolution and encourages all efforts to rebuild the country. we support all efforts to strengthen the movements which seek to restore democracy and justice in zimbabwe. the countries of the southern african region are therefore called upon to become more involved in solving this problem, which is first and foremost an african problem, but we are nevertheless standing by them.
madam president, the eu-acp relationship is far from old-fashioned. on the contrary, the eu-acp partnership has always been able to evolve in changing contexts, as many evaluations confirm. significant progress has been made in the areas of health, promotion and regional cooperation in africa, not to mention infrastructure. the balance sheet for political cooperation is somewhat more mixed. this dimension is still largely unused. i still believe that the doha round, for example, which sought to combine trade and development for the benefit of all, and particularly the weakest, failed because the union and the 79 acp states could not agree on a common line. in my view, it would be in the interest of both sides to agree on a strategic pact which could have a strong influence on the un assembly and on the major multilateral conferences. but the question is how to make the most of these potentials. unfortunately, our political leaders - the member states - are only weakly involved in this cooperation. since we are proclaiming all day long that the awakening of africa is imminent, we should expect more aggressive, more robust, more determined and more effective political action. yes, we are forming a community of destiny with the acp, and more particularly with our neighbours in sub-saharan africa, in areas as diverse as climate, energy and security, among others. my final point is a warning to those who would be tempted to break up the eu-acp relationship into its regional components. and i would not like to end without thanking norbert neuser for opening the debate with a report which is not the end of a process, but only the beginning.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, access to high quality and affordable connectivity for all citizens and businesses seamlessly across the european union is essential for realising the full benefits of the digital single market. therefore, before addressing the important issue of roaming, let me stress the importance of the comprehensive connectivity package the commission adopted in september. we want ambitious connectivity targets and modern rules to support these goals. i am confident that you in the european parliament share the need for a swift but comprehensive handling of this ambitious package. turning now to roaming: in 2015, the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation establishing that from 15 june 2017, retail roaming surcharges should be abolished. this regulation only addressed roaming surcharges. it did not aim at price harmonisation or at lowering the price of international calls, which i will address in the second part. abolishment of retail roaming surcharges is essential for citizens and businesses across the european union, and the commission is fully committed to deliver. now we need to complete the steps necessary to ensure it. when agreeing the end of roaming surcharges in november 2015, the european parliament and the council asked the commission to put in place necessary accompanying measures, the reform of the roaming wholesale market, including the setting of price caps, to set up fair use of our ‘roam like at home’ to prevent abusive or anomalous usage of the system, and an exceptional derogation system in cases where replication of ‘roam like at home’ would otherwise provoke price increases for domestic customers. none of this is an easy task, given the diversity of existing business models in the european union and fragmentation of the markets, but i am convinced that together we can find solutions and deliver on what we commonly agreed. let me also briefly turn to the issue of intra-eu calls which has also been raised in this house. i agree with you that, in a single market, barriers should fall and the price of calls should not depend on the country code. to tackle the fragmentation inside the european union, the commission proposed the new electronic communications code. it provides clear rules for the whole of the whole eu for an inclusive single market where competitive investments in networks will ensure high quality connectivity and where consumers enjoy a high level of protection and have access to affordable services. but besides this, the proposal also includes measures that will help to increase competitive pressure and reduce the scope for price discrimination. in particular, we propose the unification of call termination rates also for international calls arriving from other member states. this will lead to a reduction of the cost for outgoing international calls. furthermore, the markets are adjusting to new realities. the growing use of internet-based communications applications has already reinforced the competition for international calls, and it is still early days for such market developments. the codes supported by the market developments will ensure that every european has effective access to wireless broadband, which will facilitate the use of alternative means of communications to make online competition work for consumers, also as regards intra-eu calls.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the eu keeps its promises: after years of tireless fighting, roaming fees will soon belong to the past. i still remember in 2004 that, as commissioner for the information society and media, i made the alarming observation that to make a phone call or send an sms from abroad was four times more expensive than a domestic call or sms. so here we are, 13 years later, and roaming surcharges will finally be abolished. to deliver by the deadline of 15 june 2017, the eu needs to agree on implementing the text without creating any loopholes that could reintroduce roaming fees through the back door. the commission should stick to its fair use proposal, which includes neither time nor volume limits to roam – like at home – and the council should consent to an ambitiously low wholesale price. but that is not all: the european parliament is readying itself for the next battle – the one against abusive mobile prices charged for intra—eu calls from your home country to another eu country. why? because those fall outside the scope of roaming regulations and hence remain priced at prohibitive levels – often eur 1 per minute for calls and 15 cents for sms. this situation makes absolutely no sense, and that is why more than 150 meps from across all political spectrums asked the commission to address the issue in the telecom package. well, the commission did not, so the parliament has to. rest assured that parliament will tackle that problem while working on the telecom package in the next weeks and months.
mr president, in about 20 years, with the necessary retrospect, we will probably say that 2016 was the year of all dangers. it is no doubt that the most reactionary of the heads of state or government have prevented europe from acting in solidarity in the face of the refugee crisis. it may be said that at the european council meetings those who wanted to move forward had to pat those who were playing with fire or who had no real objection to the threat of the collapse of the european edifice. it can be said that populists, even in the highest spheres of power, have led officials to bow down to the leaders of third countries who have already ushered in the post-democratic era. some may say that in 2016, our leaders have succeeded in closing the gaps. if in 2035 we can say that we have had to stoop to this level in order to reconnect with our fundamental values and with the principle of an ever closer european union, then perhaps we can better judge the poor state of europe in 2016. and the argument for mitigating circumstances can only be made in so far as this not very glorious period of our history has finally given rise to a new impetus for the construction of europe.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the future eu prosecutor should be based in luxembourg. the conclusions of the representatives of the member states of 12 and 13 december 2003 state that 'the representatives of the member states, meeting at the level of heads of state or government, have agreed to give priority to the acceding states, once they have become members of the union, as regards the allocation of seats to other bodies to be created, without prejudice to the fact that, if a european public prosecutor's office is established, it will have its seat in luxembourg in accordance with the provisions of the decision of 8 april 1965' and therefore leave no doubt as to the location of the office of the public prosecutor of the union by stating that all judicial or quasi-judicial bodies are intended to be established in the same place, in luxembourg. my support for the european parliament resolution of 5 october 2016 on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust should be interpreted in this way.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the people of the democratic republic of congo (drc) deserve better. at a time when the country's leaders are called upon to combat corruption and to provide the means for the state to carry out its royal duties, the president's main concern is to remain in power. initially scheduled for the end of november, the elections were eventually postponed for two years. many leaders in other countries, tempted to do the same, have already used the need for a census as a pretext for initiating the electoral process. it's the same in the drc. the pretext that the electoral register should be revised first is not very original. the belgian foreign minister reminded us again this morning on radio la première, saying that even if there were to be a re-examination, it could reasonably be done in a few months. this also seems to be the view of the opposition in congo, which intends to block the talks on this issue. the congolese citizens who are committed to democracy and, in general, passionate about politics, are firmly opposed to these actions. they are doomed to suffer the action, or the inaction, of their leaders who are more concerned with their own ambition than with the fate of their people. and yet, it all started well. the path of transition had allowed a reconnection with democratic principles and the rule of law. elections were held with the help of the international community, including the european union. unfortunately, there is no panacea that can solve this problem immediately. the pressure has to come from within. it is up to the congolese people to move the lines. we can certainly encourage those responsible, but the direction must be taken by the congolese themselves. as for europe, it must be said loud and clear that it will always be ready to engage in solid partnerships to help the congolese people to get out of the rut once the conditions are met.
i am not going to repeat what my colleagues, mr leine, mr liese and mr la via have said. parliament is very united on what we want in general. i would rather return to what i believe was a success in paris, namely the fact that we went from "climate problems" to "climate solutions". so my question, commissioner, is: how are we going to continue to give new impetus to the lima-paris action plan, which is now going to take on a new form? i am very much afraid that we will lose this dynamic, which has been created and in which france and mrs royal have put a lot of energy. is the european commission prepared to commit funds and the expertise of its officials to help really carry this initiative forward? i have three concrete ideas. as we are going to morocco, the first is the energy for africa initiative. i'm trying to promote this idea with mr. borloo and others here in the house. we have welcomed the proposal we call 'juncker 2', a plan to reduce the risks to africa. could you explain a little more clearly how mr borloo's initiative 'energy for africa' is linked to the juncker guarantee fund? the second is energy efficiency. africa, egypt, algeria, tunisia and morocco need to improve energy efficiency. we are the world champions in eco-design and labels a, b, c and d. so what are we doing to help the maghreb countries? the third thing is renewable energy. i think spain, portugal and morocco could be the first region beyond the continents where we go to 100 percent renewables. shouldn't we offer african countries the opportunity to export renewables to europe, and thus increase our renewables target by 1% to also give them access to our market by exporting renewable energy?
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank parliament for today’s debate on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, sophia in ‘t veld, for her personal engagement and the important work that has gone into the preparation of the report. she is passionate about this and we could see her passion reflected in the report. we can all fully agree on the objective underlying the report, which is to ensure that our common values and rules are respected and, if need be, enforced. the key issue for discussion is not about the objective itself but about the best means to achieve that objective. there is much in the report i can fully agree with, such as the suggestion to follow an inclusive approach with all stakeholders – eu institutions, member states and civil society. the idea of an interparliamentary dialogue between the european parliament and national parliaments equally merits support. national parliaments are involved in many of the rule of law related problems that we witness in member states today. we need to work towards a common understanding of our values at national and at european level. this interparliamentary dialogue could, as a first step, lead to a discussion on the different options and means which are currently on the table to ensure that our common values are respected and enforced. the commission and i assume that the council will want to be involved as well. however, there are also a number of points in the report on which i have questions and i would very much like to hear your views. for instance, i have questions about the need and the feasibility of an annual report and a policy cycle prepared by a committee of experts. i also have doubts about the feasibility of an interinstitutional agreement on this matter. some elements of the proposed approach, such as the central role attributed to an independent expert panel in the proposed pact, also raise questions of legality, institutional legitimacy and accountability. moreover, from a practical and political point of view, it may also be very difficult to find common ground on such an interinstitutional agreement between all the parties concerned. i hope we can all agree that a long institutional debate on new mechanisms is the last thing we need right now. we have a range of existing tools and actors that already provide a set of complementary and effective means to address rule of law issues. duplication of existing mechanisms is something i think we should avoid, and if i understood mrs in ‘t veld’s introduction correctly, this is something she wants to avoid as well. as you know, in march 2014 the commission adopted a rule of law framework. we are currently applying this framework in the case of poland for the first time. mrs in ‘t veld referred to this. the commission takes protecting the rule of law very seriously. we are grateful for the support parliament has shown in its resolution of 14 september and we need that support if we are to be successful in our approach. the commission also organises an annual fundamental rights colloquium, involving european institutions, member states, international organisations and civil society. this year the colloquium will take place on 17 and 18 november and will be devoted to the topic of media pluralism and democracy. as you know – and as mrs in ‘t veld mentioned – in december 2014 the council established a rule of law dialogue to debate rule of law issues and – as mrs in ‘t veld has said – in a previous capacity as foreign minister, i was one of the people who took the initiative, together with the foreign ministers of denmark, germany and finland. we also have a number of other actors, apart from the council – the council of europe, the venice commission, the agency for fundamental rights and a host of ngos active in the field of fundamental rights. they all contribute to the monitoring of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our member states. we should make their contributions stronger. we should also make the best possible use of these existing instruments, evaluate them, look where we see deficiencies and then take steps towards the creation of a new mechanism – only after that evaluation, i would say. i very much look forward to hearing your views. let me assure you that the commission will examine your request for a proposal very carefully, in line with article 225 of the treaty, and give this report the serious response it deserves. but let me also stress again what i think is crucial. we need to avoid division around our common values as clearly set out in the treaties and work with our various partners to build a consensus. protecting the fundamental values of the union is a collective responsibility of all institutions. the existing treaties give us the tools so let us use them. at the end of the day, this is a very political process. but let me repeat here what i said last week in the committee discussion we had on that in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). without full integral application of the rule of law across the european union, the european union is doomed because the rule of law is the fundament upon which this construction is built. if we disregard the rule of law, there is nothing to keep the european union together, other than naked power politics. that will be to the detriment of the smaller, of the minorities, of the weaker, and of the individual citizens. we cannot let that happen.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur mrs in ’t veld for a remarkably inclusive approach that she has had throughout this process and which has allowed maximum convergence throughout this parliament on a text which i believe is fundamental. it is even more fundamental if i hear the first vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, telling us that there may be difficulty to find common ground on the topic throughout the institutions. that to me is the best proof that this is exactly the moment in which we need to kick off a process of engagement towards finding a veritable and a true european logic of governance, because we may not be there yet, as we discover far too often when we see governance trends in certain european countries, as has been the case over the last month and as may be the case again. who, at the end of the day, is going to protect us from what happened in the inter-war period – when one country after another, for reasons of their own, drifted off into extremely problematic governmental orientations – with what we have now. with the generalised unanimity requirement that is on the table to engage whatsoever with respect to any sort of state, we would be doing essentially nothing and that would be dramatic. it would be dramatic as a sign to the millions of europeans who nowadays look towards europe and to this house as the only – the only – buoy of stability; if it is about guaranteeing that elections in the future change policies, yes, but not the nature of their state. this is something that is aimed at ensuring continuity of statehood, of institutions, of impartiality of state against electoral result, if need be, and against those who believe that saving the occident is more important than saving their own citizens from arbitrary governance. this is a necessary mechanism. this is something that we can now embrace. this is something that we now should embrace and this is something for which parliament has taken time to converge towards but it is good that it has finally done so.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as a member of the delegation, i would also like to thank our chairman, mr la via, for the excellent professional organisation. we had a great time and our commissioner is certainly a good international negotiator. i think it is right that we should point this out. it was a good cop. we had the impression of a quick ratification, there was unity against mr trump and there were a lot of positive vibes, in part because of the positive agenda that the french have started in paris: energy efficiency in buildings, energy efficiency in transport, renewable energy, interconnectivity, and getting financial markets to understand that it is not black energy but green energy which is the future. all that was around us and is really positive. i have two critical remarks to make. one, commissioner, is that i think we in europe could be better at selling our story. the success story of europe is that 95% of our climate achievements are in eco-design, labelling, building legislation, energy efficiency legislation, renewables, co2 and cars. five percent may be due to the ets, because the ets is largely a failure. so why, at international cops, do we speak only about carbon markets and why do we hide away our success stories on renewables? why did nobody from the commission speak about the juncker external fund for africa at a time when we could help africa to improve and to move much more quickly into renewable energy? the second criticism concerns early ambition. you will have a difficult time in 2018 if we go with that the council’s low level of ambition, which was set in the light of mr cameron’s veto threat. forty percent by 2727 is not a story in a 1.5º world nor in a 2º world. your energy package of next week will be the occasion to show that europe is a leader and, in that regard, why are you now reducing the investment opportunities for renewables in europe with low ambition, low governance and the destruction of priority access and despatch? on the rule book and the support scheme, you have some civil servants who prevent you from doing what you have politically agreed. why is mr timmermans opposing a quota on renewable energy? i hope it is not because we have so many gas lobbyists hanging around. i tell you, and i tell mr juncker, if next week is not about europe being positive, being number one, you will have another blow to european public opinion.
blue-card question. – you are saying that we are deindustrialising europe. are you aware that electricity prices in germany today, for example are as low as they are in the usa and that german industry has very good years behind it? please show me the facts. today, because we have renewables and energy efficiency, prices for big electricity consumers are relatively low. be aware also that the commission, through the juncker investment fund, is now organising money for precisely what you want to have, which is combating energy poverty in europe. so be more positive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, allow me to thank mr juncker for having stuck to the 30% energy efficiency he promised us, mr šefčovič for promoting energy for citizens, mr arias cañete for banning new coal, mr timmermans for recognising that eco-design is a big measure for europe, mr katainen for all the work he does on improving financing around energy efficiency, and mr moedas for preparing the energy business in europe for disruptive change. but - and of course there are good elements in this package - there is a lack of vision. why do you call this package ‘clean energy’? why do you not call it green energy? because the future can only be renewables. look at the costs. 50% renewable electricity in 2030, with full electrification of transport, bringing more heat and electricity: that is too low, sorry; get up your numbers. if there is one thing which is unacceptable in this package it is your costs on renewables. how is it possible that the commission suggests that an offshore wind park costs eur 90 [per mwh] in 2050 when we have seen one last week which cost eur 49 in 2016? you need a reality check when it comes to the cost reductions of renewables, and you need a reality check when it comes to ets and how well or badly it functions. this is not building trust. the second thing is that this package is not building trust for the market. yes, krišjānis, let the market take over, but not only for renewables. what is a market where coal pollution costs eur 4 per tonne? what is a market where german power companies have to pay for the decommissioning, while france is organising a eur 100-billion-plus tax subsidy for decommissioning? i want the market to take over, but it must be a market which is fair not only for renewables but also has to address coal and nuclear costs. and it is not building trust with governments. governments are not happy. why? because you cannot coerce governments by forcing them to open their support schemes. that is not building trust: forcing them to split, or suggesting that they split countries up into two or more zones, forcing them to open cross-border lines without any security margins. that is not building trust. we need to go beyond borders, but therefore we need concrete plans. for the baltic sea, how do we link desynchronisation, which is a political must, with offshore wind farms? for south-east europe, how do we reduce capital costs in non-euro countries like bulgaria and romania, and help greece? how do we get 100% renewable fast-charging stations between germany, france, italy, benelux? concrete projects: why do we not have a financing scheme to help citizens’ cooperatives. let us make concrete projects to bring this energy union closer to citizens and closer also to the governments.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, at first sight, there is a tendency to pay little attention to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. however, a closer look at them makes it very quickly apparent that many of these provisions have political significance. the rules of procedure are part of the parliamentarian's toolbox. simplifying them means making parliamentary work more expeditious. our colleague richard corbett has summarized the reflections which have been submitted to him by the representatives of the political groups over the last thirty months. the number of members required to trigger a parliamentary decision varied according to the requests from our colleagues. it was a maze. we have succeeded in bringing order to this, although we have not succeeded in giving greater value to the role of the political groups, which i regret. let us focus our work on strengthening sanctions against our colleagues who are tempted by particularly hurtful and irresponsible remarks. candidates for the presidency of the commission declare, in principle, before their approval by the european parliament, that they do not want to be elected by members from extremist parties. with the election of the president of the commission by open ballot, as proposed in our report, we will now have the opportunity to verify this. if the proposal is accepted, parliament will in future be informed of the decisions taken by the college of commissioners before the press and on the same day in plenary. finally, the new proposals for regulations will enable the european parliament, if it so wishes, of course, to put an end to the ranking of members' performances and, in so doing, to one of the greatest absurdities in the parliamentary world, as my colleague, mercedes bresso, has already said. the quality of parliamentary activity is not measured by the number of speeches or reports. to give the same importance to a report which simply endorses a commission proposal and does not require in-depth research as, for example, the report on the budget of the european union, is simply to discount the work of the budget rapporteur. this ranking, which is supposed to encourage members of the european parliament to intensify their work, only records the number of parliamentary acts without being able to give any indication of the quality of their action. this form of stakhanovism has the effect of producing amendments by the trigger-haul, which leads to an inflation of votes for deliberation. the means and costs generated by the activism of some of our colleagues are inversely proportional to the results obtained. statistics are certainly political, but there are better ways of moving europe forward than simply recording noise. i therefore urge you to exercise responsibility when voting on our proposal to revise the regulation. two and a half years of thought, hard work and exemplary commitment by our rapporteur, richard corbett, and our president, rainer wieland, are well worth the support of our assembly. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. a body in the european parliament empowered to decide on such a question.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we are all touched by this horrible and barbaric event in egypt and we share the same feelings here tonight in this debate. i would like to thank you for your sensitivity in connection with the attack that occurred in egypt. the european union is undertaking efforts to enhance stability in egypt, as well as the freedom of religion in the whole region. the freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right. its free exercise contributes to pluralism, democracy, development, rule of law, peace and stability. its violation leads to intolerance, violence and despotism. the european union will continue to use all its policy instruments to ensure all over the world a favourable environment for the exercise of the freedom of religion and belief. and this is what unites us all in this chamber tonight.
author. mr president, commissioner, on 6 june we adopted here in parliament the regulation to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the conditions for the presentation and acceptance of certain public documents within the union. as rapporteur on this matter, i would like to point out that we agreed to this text with a little bitterness after tough discussions with the council because we think that this regulation is too unambitious. but we considered it a step, a small step, admittedly, but a step towards more europe, because the acceptance by one member state of a civil status document issued by another member state brings a little more comfort to citizens travelling within the european union. i have regretted, and i still regret, the frivolity of the member states who have not shown any enthusiasm for cutting red tape and for providing a small, concrete solution towards more union and more europe. i would like to see progress, however modest, and i believe that the response to the plight of the peoples of europe cannot be to withdraw into ourselves. on the contrary, i believe that we must fight for a european union which serves the citizens. i dare believe that the commission can and will help to move in this direction. at the time when the commission presented its proposal for a regulation on the acceptance of public documents, a second proposal was being considered, which was to provide for the recognition of the content of civil status documents. this recognition was also to apply to registered partnerships. i would like to emphasize this, because i think this is a very important element, since it promotes equal treatment for all citizens, regardless of their personality, marital status or lifestyle. in the hearing before she was appointed commissioner, ms jourová told us that she intended to propose such a regulation and that preparatory work had already begun within the commission services, with the launch of a study to examine all relevant issues. so my question is: when will the conclusions of the study or impact assessment be available? does the commission still intend to submit a proposal on the recognition of the content of public documents, civil status documents? when can parliament expect this presentation? does the commission still intend to include registered partnerships in the scope of the proposal? if not, why would she change her mind?
madam president, fellow chinese citizens, fellow chinese leaders, the 21st century will be a century of many tensions, stresses, upheavals and accelerations. places where you can sit and breathe quietly, where you can root yourself, where you can get out of the hassle of everyday life, where you can meditate, these are places that are important and, dear chinese people, you who are coming out of a thousand-year-old spiritual tradition, you who are perhaps more than any other people being propelled with incredible speed into a frenzied modernity, by destroying monasteries, by persecuting those in tibet who do nothing but seek spirituality, quiet, a better world, you are destroying what you, as chinese people, may need most tomorrow.
