mr president, it is never easy being a small country, especially one whose territory has historically been marched through back and forth numerous times simply as a result of being surrounded by more influential and larger neighbours. nonetheless, luxembourg has managed to overcome these obstacles, emerging as a major actor in the process of european integration with much greater weight than its size might otherwise suggest. the previous semester has undoubtedly been a difficult one, especially due to the severe worsening of the migrant crisis and the terror attacks in paris. i hope that the recently approved measures aimed at strengthening external borders and combating internal radicalisation will very soon produce viable long-term results. the data protection package, the setting up of the european pnr system and the reform of the court of justice of the eu are also among the more positive outcomes. i can only regret that my own country, latvia, was not able or willing enough to emerge with results of the same scale and long-term impact during its presidency of the council of the eu just before luxembourg.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the digital single market. that's a lot of words. we probably understand that in this room, but what do those words really mean? let's say we could go to, say, munich and buy a white painting from munich. i can go to riga, another can go to london, stockholm, lisbon and eat it there. it seems perfectly normal. at the same time, from riga, with a paid subscription, say, on television or in the electronic environment of the internet, i cannot enjoy it in munich, london or dublin. why would you do that? with goods, we have largely dismantled barriers, borders between member states, but in the digital field, which will become increasingly important in our economy, we still have these barriers, which are largely based on copyright issues, including patents. so what do we do? we must remove these barriers, we must ensure that copyright and patents are valid throughout europe, not just in one member state. otherwise, we'll only be able to go to munich to eat the minhenes. we think that's ridiculous. it's just as absurd that to enjoy content on the internet, we have to be in one country and we can't be in another country. thank you for your attention. (the president agreed to reply to the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
answer to the blue card question. thank you for your question, colleagues. when we talk about a single market, we are talking about a digital single market. it is already the case, and on behalf of the european people's party we argue that we must remove barriers in all areas that restrict trade. so in this case, we're debating today about the digital realm, which is very important. of course, it's also very important in education. and we still have barriers in the market for goods and services. so, on behalf of our group, we argue that we must remove the obstacles.
in writing. ‒ this vote to waive the immunity of a member of the european parliament concerns the infringement of the law by polish member of parliament, mr czeslaw adam szekirska, in connection with a speeding offence committed on 10 january 2015 in a built-up area. mr šekirska himself acknowledged that this infringement had taken place a year earlier, but chose to exercise the immunity legally granted to his meps so that the prosecutor general of the republic of poland could not legally investigate this speeding by bringing the criminal proceedings in question. while there is no need to abolish the practice of granting immunity to members, any person - especially an important official such as a member of the european parliament - who has not only committed an illegal act but has also admitted it himself, needs to be held accountable for his actions on the basis of the principles of the rule of law. it was therefore logical to vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this vote to waive the immunity of a member of the european parliament concerns the infringement of the law by polish member of parliament, mr czeslaw adam szekirska, in respect of a speeding offence committed on 19 april 2015 at a place where the legal speed limit is 50 km/h, compared to 79 km/h registered for the car driven by mr szekirska. in other words, this case is in full agreement with the previous precedent of speeding that occurred three months earlier. as in the previous vote, mr šekirska acknowledged the fact of this infringement but chose to use his parliamentary immunity to prevent the criminal proceedings against him. i consider that, at least from a moral point of view, such conduct was not entirely acceptable in this case, and i therefore voted to waive the member's immunity until all the relevant criminal proceedings have been completed and the case has been closed following a formal settlement.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the main objective of this draft legislative resolution was to promote a more effective common fisheries policy for bluefin tuna stocks in the atlantic and mediterranean. this is to be achieved by supporting traditional fishermen using various types of artisanal fishing gear, such as the almadraba hook, whose main advantage is their low impact on ecosystems. given that bluefin tuna is classified as an endangered species, a series of measures will be implemented in order to avoid any deterioration of its rather fragile balance, thus making it even weaker. recreational and sport fishing will inevitably have to take account of different rules, such as the mandatory release and return of juveniles. the amendments introduced in general, alongside the repeal of the regulation, should become another mechanism for standardising the rationalisation of the european union's fisheries policy, and this is welcome. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the competition policy of the european union is to some extent one of the most crucial community-wide sectors. it affects the eu's economic development, including its promotion of progress in the social sphere and international relations. in business, it plays one of the most important roles. but striking a more effective balance between defending consumers' interests and improving the business climate in the internal and external markets is what this report seeks to achieve in the future through the recommendations it contains, which are addressed primarily to the european commission. reforming the digital economy, fostering social cohesion, fostering closer cooperation through national competition authorities, streamlining the role of the banking sector and taxation policies - not only all of these, but also more effective antitrust patenting and much more was mentioned in this report. that is commendable. all these cases must contribute to the implementation of our union's competition policy, so that we can guarantee both the interests of our internal consumers and internal competition. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the european union's competition law is one of the cornerstones of the internal market. it aims to provide a fair environment for business, whereby consumers receive goods and services at market-conform prices and quality, and entrepreneurs receive clear rules of the game. unfortunately, in practice, things don't work out as they should. we still have monopolies and cartels in the european union, which have caused between 181 and 320 billion euros in economic losses. the work of the european commission, which monitors compliance with competition law and restrains violators by bringing charges against them and imposing penalties, is therefore important. for example, the us company microsoft has been fined €1.68 billion by the european commission. the european commission has also indicted the russian state-owned company gazprom for abusing a dominant market position in eight eu countries. i therefore believe that the european commission's capacity to investigate and monitor such serious infringements must be further strengthened to ensure that the laws are respected and to prevent unfair competition which harms not only consumers but also many honest businesses. in the light of the above arguments, i vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the existence of cartels causes losses of eur 181320 billion each year, i.e. about 3% of the european union's gdp. tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens, in the form of uncollected revenues, cost eu taxpayers around eur 1 trillion a year. i believe that every effort should be made to eliminate distortions of competition between taxpaying and non-taxpaying companies. nor are distortive national tax models that create unequal competition between companies, in particular large multinational companies and smes, and between member states where such tax models are not applied. the implementation of a fair eu competition policy will not only help to overcome these problems, but will also increase consumer welfare and raise the standard of living of every citizen of the european union. i therefore hope that the resolution adopted today will help to establish a competition policy which will ensure the successful completion of a single european market in which consumers, wherever they live, will be able to obtain the same quality of goods or services without having to pay for them because of unfair competition and unjustified market restrictions.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. cultural diversity is an integral part of our world. intercultural dialogue, therefore, aimed at the exchange of knowledge, traditions, customs and the combination of these are all important in education. its role in our society and elsewhere in the world cannot be ignored, especially in view of the often very widespread stereotypes, which are often quite negative in nature. support for ngos, positive modernisation of the education system, reform of integration policies largely due to the current ineffective performance in several eu member states, as well as diplomacy, preservation of cultural identity and so on implementing these and several other policies at transnational level is not only simply important but also vitally necessary. it must be said that the effective adaptation of existing principles in the cultural sphere and the rational reform of the sphere to meet the challenges of the present and the future are the guarantee that our society will continue to function effectively and that our fundamental values will not be lost. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the effects of the global financial crisis almost a decade ago are still being felt in the european union's economy as a whole and in the financial sector in particular, which has suffered a major shock, as we know. while the reforms of the financial system, which primarily affect capital markets and various levels of financial services, have been underway for some time, this path is not yet fully completed. it is clear that the european commission and all other eu supranational financial regulators and other national levels must work more closely together to ensure that the reforms under way are implemented and that crises are avoided. one of the primary factors that led to the crisis of 2008-9 was the inefficiency of the banking system and its weak supervisory framework. it is therefore extremely important to note this decision that we voted on today. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. it's as if there's no legal difference between men and women. legally, legally, in the business world. and it can't be, but the statistics say otherwise. unfortunately, at present only about one third of all entrepreneurs or self-employed people in the european union are women. and that's not right. and that is discrimination. all the necessary reforms are vital in this area to achieve gender equality, to achieve real equality. but at the same time, i would like to point out that the irrationally implemented gender quotas for company boards of directors do not really do any good. legal and social equality between the sexes is an undeniably good thing, but any processes and decisions in this regard must be based on the principles of a genuine meritocracy. therefore, if a person is a professional, regardless of gender, he or she must accept this or that post. thank you.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution highlighting the impact of external factors and the obstacles to women's entrepreneurship in europe. i support the promotion of gender equality and believe that important steps have already been taken to achieve equal rights and development opportunities for women and men. i voted against the resolution's paragraph on the introduction of mandatory gender quotas in the member states because i believe that the demographic situation in each member state is very different and therefore i do not believe that the introduction of mandatory gender quotas is the solution to promoting female entrepreneurship in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i am also very pleased to vote for this report by mr plura, because it is extremely important. youth unemployment is one of the main problems in the european union economy as a whole, and as far as my country, latvia, is concerned, youth unemployment has become a real tragedy in my country. consequently, any measure, any method, any approach, any policy and any policy-making to reduce youth unemployment must be welcomed. the unfortunate thing is that the main thing employers now want is for an employee to be 25 years old and have the same seniority. obviously, that's not possible. and if you don't have experience, you don't get hired, and you don't get hired because you don't have experience -- that's a loophole. we have to seriously pursue this particular vector, this vector, to reduce youth unemployment not only in latvia, not only in eastern europe, but also throughout the european union, because in my view this is the number one problem.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is a very serious problem in the european union and effective solutions must be found to keep it from rising. the figures speak for themselves in 2014, the eu youth unemployment rate was 21.4%, which was twice the overall unemployment rate in the eu. the crisis has affected employment sufficiently and therefore the eu needs funds to improve the situation in the field of youth employment in the european union. young people are the future of the european union and for this future to succeed, the european union needs policies that promote the entrepreneurship and skills of young people. on the basis of all the above arguments, i supported this resolution of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on moving towards a digital single market because i believe that digitalisation has a huge potential to boost the european union's economic growth by boosting gdp growth, creating a good investment environment and creating thousands of new jobs. while the single market in its traditional form is already functioning in the european union, fragmentation still exists in the digital market, with 28 different laws in each member state. this is unacceptable and not in the interests of the eu's citizens. uniform rules will facilitate cross-border trade, give businesses greater choice in cross-border transactions and reduce administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. the resolution also stressed the need to find a solution to ending geo-blocking and price discrimination based on location. when a resident buys a service or a good online, he or she should be entitled to enjoy that service regardless of his or her location, credit card issuing country or nationality.
in writing. - e-video has become an integral part of our lives. it is therefore only logical that the opportunities and potential that have been uncovered should be used to have a positive impact on the daily lives of europeans. this applies to all sectors affected, from business and education to culture and security. at present, even with the gradual development of the transnational eu-wide system i.e. the digital single market , there are still 28 separate relevant policy-making and implementation systems, leading to certain obstacles such as restricted consumer options, as well as more active development of security systems due to the existence of several, often completely separate systems. maximising digitalisation, more standardisation of vat, encouraging efforts to boost safety and the implementation of the remaining steps would not only have a huge impact on the eu's economic development, but also on other sectors such as information exchange, education or ecology, through the use of less wood due to the higher degree of digitalisation of more materials. the main thing, of course, is to guarantee a constant and maximum stable supply of electricity in parallel.
in writing. at a time of declining economic growth rates in the world and a tendency for manufacturing to move away from europe, existing and new resources must be used to accelerate development. i believe that the time is right to use the experience and knowledge in the digital economy for development, especially in the new member states, such as latvia, which is already emerging as a leader in the digital economy. the digital economy needs a digital single market based on common european union rules to flourish. a number of barriers preventing smes, start-ups and growth companies from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies such as big data, cloud computing, the web of things, 3d printing and others, need to be removed. it is important for consumers to end geo-blocking, or restricting online content based on the location of the customer, and to strengthen consumer protection online. unfortunately, today, not only does the availability of audiovisual material vary from country to country, but also the rights of buyers are not protected when buying digital content online, such as mobile applications. it will also make it cheaper to deliver parcels across borders, which are currently often inadequately priced or not available at all. it is also essential to promote public confidence in online business, or e-commerce, by ensuring the protection of personal data and by creating common rules for businesses and consumers across europe.
madam president, the recent developments in saudi-iranian relations have a great potential to further destabilise the middle east. the execution of the shia cleric al-nimr was an irresponsible act by the saudi government, further exacerbating sectarianism. iran, on the other hand, has failed in its duty to protect the saudi embassy from a mob attack. the decision of saudi arabia to cut off diplomatic and indeed any kind of relations with iran, however, is disproportionate. a different path, nevertheless, is possible. the implementation of the nuclear agreement with iran and the lifting of sanctions against iran pave the way for a constructive engagement with iran in the regional crisis. syria is a place to start. saudi-iranian tensions should not be allowed to derail the fragile progress on peace talks on syria. there is now a roadmap and timetable for such talks as decided by the un security council resolution. i call on both sides to show responsibility and restraint in this conflict. but i would like to stress that for a peaceful future in the region it is essential that saudi arabia does a lot more to stop the funding of terrorist groups originating in the country and the spread of extremist wahhabi ideology which inspires such terrorist acts as the attacks in paris and beirut or the bombing of the russian civilian airliner over egypt.
prime minister! if you could only achieve one of your well-targeted priorities: to introduce genuine european union border controls and to end the possibility for migrants to cross borders and to move wherever they want in transit , then your presidency could already be considered a success. if you could still stop the futile efforts of some member states and the european commission to introduce a quasi-automatic or other similar forced relocation system for asylum seekers, that would be another step forward and an even more successful presidency. because this division is pointless! a person has usurped the right to decide on behalf of the european union on the migrant's own choice of which member state to obtain refugee status. and against his will, and in the end, he will not tolerate these migrants wandering around the european union, because they are going to a country that they have paid smugglers for and that has invited them. and the only way to stop it is to introduce internal borders, which will divide schengen. and finally, if you were to stop nord stream 2 as an energy priority, your presidency would be simply great!
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on the draft council decision for latvia to start the automated exchange of vehicle registration data (trd). i believe that this is a welcome decision which will help the latvian law enforcement and other security authorities to work much more efficiently, will ensure an even better functioning of the data protection system and will increase the security of the citizens of the european union. data protection and the automated exchange of information between the competent authorities of the eu member states is a very topical issue in the light of the events of the last year and can be seen as a positive step towards a safer europe. in order to improve the fight against terrorism and organised crime, it is necessary to ensure the effective exchange of data and information at least within the union, while respecting the protection of citizens' data and their right to privacy.
in writing. ‒ strengthening crossborder cooperation is one of the cornerstones of the european union's integration policy and covers several areas, including transport and, in particular, vehicle policy. as a member of the european parliament representing the republic of latvia, it was a great honour for me to become the shadow rapporteur for this draft council implementing decision, especially in view of the potential benefits that this practice could bring to both my home country and the partner countries. the automated exchange of vehicle registration data will not only increase the effectiveness of this area in latvia itself, but will also contribute to the development of relations with other eu member states, and - which has recently become much more relevant and important than before - will boost the presence of safety within our union. each country must contribute to the advancement of its art in this area.
in writing. i am pleased that latvia has successfully implemented the pilot with the netherlands and has introduced all the necessary data protection rules and will thus be able to participate in the eu's automatic exchange of vehicle registration data system together with other eu member states such as belgium, sweden, germany, the netherlands, lithuania, estonia, poland. the accession of latvia to the single automated vehicle registration system is of particular importance in several respects. it will ensure cross-border cooperation and help to prevent serious crime or terrorist threats, if any. it is of the utmost importance that latvia now has the possibility to call on other national police officers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, when necessary, to ensure public order and security or to prevent crime, for example during mass events. i have always stressed that the security of the country and its citizens must be one of the priorities, and i hope that latvia's accession to the car registration system will increase the security of latvian citizens and help prevent and investigate criminal offences and terrorism in other european countries.
the presumption of innocence is one of the most important cornerstones of jurisprudence. it is legal in the bible, and it is, in fact, a principle that works worldwide. the idea is the main one and it must be implemented, and i support and vote in favour of today's decision. it should be said that the inadmissibility of the use of force during the execution of criminal proceedings, the inadmissibility of describing a person as a criminal in public or in the mass media, and that it is the prosecution that must prove its guilt in court. it is the absolute right of the accused to be present in the courtroom during the trial. further general implementation of these principles is needed by our community. i repeat, i voted in favor. it will help to realise and strengthen our values, because the rule of law is the property of any healthy state and society.
the community-wide legal framework for the placing of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the single market has been in place for more than a quarter of a century. however, it is clear that, given the progress made since 1989 both in union legislation in this area and in the technical development of iuds, it is clearly time to modernise the council directive which also regulates the placing of iuds on the single market of the european union. i support this approach because personal protective equipment, which is actively used not only by professionals such as firefighters or soldiers but also by other people who for some reason have become dependent on it, must meet a number of different requirements, firstly in terms of quality and use. i therefore welcome this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, which aims to promote these aspects of the use of ida, and i repeat that i voted in favour.
in writing. i am pleased that this regulation has led to the creation of harmonised rules aimed at better protecting users while reducing the amount of bureaucratic requirements that manufacturers have to meet. the use of personal protective equipment - crash helmets, safety harnesses, life jackets - is a matter of public health and even public life. these devices, which are used every day in many workplaces and sports, must be absolutely safe and perform their functions. the use and manufacture of these products has changed a great deal over the last 25 years since the development of the existing eu safety standards for personal protective equipment. the working environment in which these products are used has changed, as have new and often more extreme sports activities, which are impossible without these products. i am therefore pleased that we have adopted rules that will significantly modernise existing legislation by setting higher safety standards. at the same time, it is important that the bureaucratic burden is not imposed on manufacturers whose products, such as decorative tarpaulins and dishwashing detergents, raincoats or clothing with decorative reflective elements, are not designed for extreme conditions.
while some eu citizens use wood, coal, petroleum or specially processed, organic and other residues for heating purposes, gas fuels remain the most popular fuel. home heating, water heating, transport fuel given the frequent daily proximity of consumers to gas-fired appliances, i naturally welcomed this desire to improve the safety situation. the exposure to gas, firstly, flue gas, or any other substance, can cause serious harm to human and domestic health. therefore, greater unification of transnational legislation with the aim of standardising quality across all 28 member states is necessary and, of course, welcome.
in writing. in latvia, an average of 60 to 70 patients with smoke inhalation are admitted to hospital each year at the beginning of the heating season. the most common cause of these life-threatening poisonings is a gas boiler leak. i am pleased that we in the european parliament have developed stricter rules on gas installations. as required by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, manufacturers will be required to design gas installations so as not to cause the accumulation of carbon monoxide or soot or other substances harmful to health. this regulation will make boilers, gas stoves, grills, toaster ovens, outdoor heaters and heating boilers much safer. the law also stipulates that only professionals may install and operate any type of gas equipment. it should be noted that there are currently around 470 million gas-fired boilers in the eu, and this number is growing more than 30 million are sold each year. in latvia, there is also growing interest in autonomous gas heating in homes.
the european union is the world's leading region in the use of gravel road equipment. some 17 500 local installations account for 60% of the world total. the european union is also a leader in the production of such equipment. it is therefore entirely logical and correct that the new regulation should thus aim to replace the old directive on rolling stock for the transport of persons. the renewal of the relevant legislation, in parallel with efforts to take account of the latest standards in passenger safety and technical regulations, forms the basis of the new regulation. this is important, and it is important that the new regulation does not affect historic structures, agricultural and forestry equipment, and other equipment used for recreational purposes only and not for the transport of persons. i'm positive about this!
in writing. ‒ the european union often operates a system of generalised tariff preferences in its relations with developing countries, under which exporters from these partner countries are able to pay lower tariffs on goods exported within the eu or not to pay any at all. the commission has already adopted a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. this vote was largely due to the fact that kyrgyzstan, which applied for the gsp+ scheme for its exporters, has still not made changes in its domestic policy on human rights, inter-community relations, labour legislation and other issues. it has historically been the case that eu foreign policy, including trade policy, is often dependent on value considerations. and here the problem is that the kyrgyz authorities' actions over a long period of time have not been in line with these values, although some progress was certainly made a few years ago. therefore, as long as the situation remains unchanged, it is not appropriate to include kyrgyzstan in the list of gsp+ countries, nor to approve the abovementioned commission delegated regulation. it is clear that there is a need to support our partner countries, but only if there is also some active movement against it.
in writing. ‒ while every human being needs to eat to stay alive, perhaps the most vulnerable group in this respect are children, especially infants, for whom food quality and maximum safety are of paramount importance. i therefore welcomed the motion for a resolution adopted by the european parliament in response to the commission's delegated regulation of 25 september 2015. the protection of infants and young children against obesity, the absolute minimisation of sugar levels in line with the standards of the world health organisation, the total prohibition of pesticides, the most transparent labelling system possible and, of course, the maximum transparency of the whole system - if we want our future generations to be healthy, then safety must be guaranteed in an area with which every person is in regular contact throughout his or her life and in which there can be no gaps in principle.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. it should be said that the colombian civil war is one of the longest conflicts in the modern world, in modern history, with hundreds of thousands of victims, millions of internally displaced persons and many kidnapped. i had the opportunity to meet the president of colombia last year at the foreign affairs committee and it is clear that the fact that the peace process is progressing gradually and that a very good result has recently been achieved - article 5 of the general agreement on the victims, which is also at the heart of the settlement - is a very important and positive step in this direction. the difficulties faced by the parties to the conflict - both the parties to the conflict and the mediators - cannot be overstated. the intermediaries, as we know, are cuba, norway, chile, venezuela, even the vatican. the mediators have done a great deal of work, but clearly there is more to do and more to be done, and it is very good that we have taken another step in this direction today as the european parliament.
madam president, if we compare the resolutions submitted by different political groups as well as today’s interventions on the issue, it seems that we are speaking of completely different georgias, moldovas and ukraines. how is it possible? my answer is blind eyes, lies and double standards. blind eyes on the irresponsibility of the governments of these countries supplied with oligarchs. lies on prospects of future eu membership for these countries. the dutch prime minister told us openly this morning that the association agreement is not a pre-accession. for the european union this is like being a man using a woman sexually without promising to marry her. double standards – why are nadia savchenko and oleg sentsov the only persons in detention to be cared about? why is there a silence of prisoners of conscience in ukraine and moldova, such as grigory petrenko and ruslan kotsaba?
madam president, i would like to speak about the eu-ukraine agreement. its entry into force was postponed until 1 january 2016 due to russian objections. it is an irony of history that now its future is challenged not by mr putin but by dutch citizens. however, i want to believe that one of the world’s most advanced nations, among the first in europe to embrace modern freedoms, a trade and technology powerhouse and leader on human rights, will support the freedom aspirations of another european nation and will let the freedom of trade and human exchange advance in the relations between the european union and ukraine. we should never forget that the eu shares over 1 300 kilometres of border with ukraine. that is why a secure and prosperous ukraine is in our own strategic interests. stability and trade across this border means more secure borders for the union. ukraine is an important trade partner for the european union. it is the largest european country, with fairly well developed industrial, agricultural and technology sectors. the agreement allows european businesses free access to this huge market. we have to be aware that a ukraine closely associated with the eu is the best safeguard against the revisionist powers who want to redraw european borders.
madam president, the last decade has undoubtedly proven difficult for georgia. the august 2008 war severely worsened relations with russia and these have only recently started to recover from economic difficulties. yet despite all this georgians have achieved the almost impossible: numerous successful reforms, especially of the judiciary, the strengthening of democracy, economic development – all of which contributed to the eventual conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement and will soon result in the finalisation of the visa liberalisation dialogue. the fact that some of my colleagues regularly criticise georgia, often on issues which have actually long been resolved, is most regrettable. the same applies for our resolutions, colleagues. what in the world has happened to quality writing? we purport to be the citadel of democracy, yet whom are we trying to lecture here? georgia, which is the cradle of european civilisation, with its millennia-old traditions and statehood? if we really are who we purport to be, a standard of proper conduct has to be upheld in everything we do here in parliament.
mr president, our debate today is a stark reminder that, six years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, there are still no implementing arrangements for the mutual defence clause and its invocation has largely been symbolic and political rather than practical. unlike for article 5 of the north atlantic treaty, there is no contingency planning and no structures at the european level for the implementation of the clause. the response to attacks in paris and the whole developments of the last few years have proven that we do need a european defence union, which would include countries that wish to cooperate closer on defence matters, to move ahead on the legal basis of permanent structured cooperation. we also need a permanent european civil military headquarters tasked with contingency planning, including for collective defence, in close cooperation with nato. in fact, closer eu-nato cooperation is key to defending our states, societies and infrastructures in the future. we do not need to reinvent the wheel, but jointly prepare for all kinds of attacks, be they traditional military or highly sophisticated non-military. this is exactly where the eu has a key role to play.
mr president, just several decades ago different parts of europe were plagued by internal conflicts with various nationalistic groups. those times are over. the advent of the globalisation age has removed any meaningful boundaries. terrorism is no longer linked to any borders; it is both global and much more radical than even before. like in northern ireland or spain, there can be no peaceful resolution. the only reasonable way to combat the current wave of radicalisation in europe, including active propaganda and isis membership, is a complete overhaul of the existing policies on integration, judiciary and prosecution, and security of financial transactions, as well as counter-propaganda in the case of those susceptible to such radicalisation, not to mention a more assertive foreign policy in relation to those who openly or allegedly contribute to these processes. i mean saudi arabia, turkey, qatar or anywhere else. i am not proposing to forsake and abolish our core values. our first and foremost objective is to guarantee the safety of our citizens, not endanger them even more.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo is an important step in stabilising the regional situation in the western balkans and constitutes a fundamental contribution to kosovo's further integration with our union. i very much hope that this will contribute to the improvement of the internal situation, democracy, the promotion of human rights values, positive economic and social development, change. but in addition to what has been said, i would like to say that it was important to take today's vote further, because it must not in any way disregard the rather weak social, economic and political situation of the serb minority in the north of kosovo, and although this area is not directly covered by the agreement, it must be a signal that the kosovars and serbs, as well as kosovo and serbia, must strive to live in peace with each other and to cultivate effective cooperation. i'm all for it. thank you.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament voted on the establishment, competence, membership and term of office of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the basis for this step was the recent scandal revealed by the us environmental protection agency, in which the german carmaker vw admitted that for years it had effectively left its cars with both diesel and petrol engines in the testing phase for co2 measurements (i.e. some 8 million cars are currently registered in europe). the indicators in these tests were several times smaller than in road tests because the specially installed hardware diverted the test to automatically edited emission measurement results. one of the main objectives of the committee will be to understand why it was the us authority that exposed this breach and the long-term deception to millions of consumers, and not some authority in the european union. it is hoped that the members appointed to the committee of inquiry will not only be able to analyse the facts and evidence available with sufficient speed and scrupulousness, but will also be as independent as possible from any outside influence. any fact-finding exercise must be entirely objective, rational and fair, at least insofar as it concerns both ecology and consumer rights and health.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. when speaking on this issue yesterday, i supposed the approach of its authors was based either on blind eyes or lies or double standards, but all three approaches come together in the characteristics of the events in donbas and luhansk described in paragraph 34, which was approved today. which ‘temporarily occupied territories’ of luhansk and donetsk are you speaking about? who are the occupiers? the local people are these ‘occupiers’, people in donetsk whom the kiev army is bombing. the journalist ruslan kotsaba who opposed mobilisation into this army is now in a ukrainian prison. do you think that the occupier is an 18-year-old girl called julia from donetsk who lost both feet and a hand when an artillery shell hit a trolley bus standing at a stop? i speak about one person because i personally watched her destiny and helped to get artificial limbs for her, but there are thousands of injured people like this and tens of thousands have lost their lives.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the georgian rapporteur here in the european parliament, and as a person who follows the eastern partnership activities in the european parliament in general, i always look with great enthusiasm and pleasure at those activities which could bring ukraine, moldova and georgia closer to the european union. it is welcome that there is free trade, that moldovan citizens, very soon georgian citizens and - i hope - ukrainian citizens can travel visa-free to the european union. but i voted today with mixed feelings and i voted against because i want to understand why we only use such words, for example, against russia. do we really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that russia will accept this and, after reading the current resolution, rush to the european union, apologize or do something else? we cannot build constructive relations with russia if we use such words in our resolutions. that's why i voted against it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. following the horrific terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november last year, france became the first country in the history of the european union to invoke article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union (teu) as a 'mutual defence clause' rather than article 222, the solidarity clause. it is to be welcomed that, in principle, all the other member states have in one way or another withdrawn and have given france various forms of support. it could not be otherwise, because the fight against terrorism cannot be fought in one country alone, and solidarity must be shown not only in the form of solidarity but also in the form of concrete assistance. since no country has invoked this clause before france, it will be necessary to pay attention to its invoking system and to possible improvements in the near future, because if something similar happens, god forbid, this mechanism must be operated quickly and legally. so i'm with you. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. violations of the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, as well as violations of children's rights, women's rights, the repression or even the killing of human rights defenders - all this only shows that the role of the european union in the un human rights council is of fundamental and vital importance. i think we have to do everything we can to ensure that our values, many of which can be seen as universal - indeed, universal - values on a global scale, are not just gradually taken into account, but ideally, actually respected. i would like to note, however, that the growing criticism of the un human rights council every year is related to the fact that the voting bloc is actually increasing because of the numerical superiority of the middle eastern and african countries. the bloc is particularly focused on israel, for example, where the human rights situation is far better than in any other country in the eastern nato region, and a representative of saudi arabia, where a huge number of people are sentenced to death, could also chair the panel.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the treaty committee has an excellent function to deal with petitions from citizens of the european union which fall within the competence of the european parliament. for example, in 2014 fewer petitions were received than in the previous year, but the average number of petitions is still increasing. this is a welcome development and is a sign of the gradual improvement in the european public's awareness of the european parliament's activities, its capabilities and its work. however, it should be borne in mind that approximately 40% of the petitions received were judged inadmissible. this may indicate not only a simple lack of awareness but also a widespread - i would say - misunderstanding of what the european parliament does. we therefore welcome the popularisation of the european parliament in the eyes of the public and the increasing awareness and the call for citizens to petition the european parliament. i'll back you up.
mr president, ethiopia represents one of the most ancient and culturally rich civilisations. its diverse ethnic and religious community, which has managed to live through millennia side by side, was something to admire not so long ago. in the last few decades, however, the situation has strongly deteriorated, with numerous human rights violations severely hampering social, economic and political progress in the country. the recent events surrounding the expansion of the ethiopian capital, addis ababa, have become just another example of large-scale civil rights violations. harassment of opposition, crackdowns on protesters, limitations on civil society and the media, the political under-representation of most ethnic groups and internet censorship – this is, most regrettably, the current reality in ethiopia. the eu is a major financial donor and provider of assistance to ethiopia and must step up its efforts, effectively addressing this issue by using every available instrument at its disposal. ethiopia has the potential to become considerably more than it is today and our task is to lend a helping hand. the current situation, however, is no longer beneficial and it has to change as soon as possible.
the deputy spoke in latin.
in writing. ‒ about 10 years ago in march 2006 regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council was adopted, the aim of which was to introduce a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders. in february and april last year, the working party of legal experts of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the commission's initial proposal for a schengen borders code was fully acceptable, as it did not in any way amend the existing texts, but merely consolidated them and thus codified them. in other words, today's vote was intended to raise the legal force of existing legislation by further integrating it into the new regulation. it is hoped that this will increase the efficiency of the schengen area, which has become more of a challenge in principle than ever in the past year.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, became the first international agreement of its kind. the 1998 aarhus protocol specifically noted the need to reduce and control more closely the levels of lead, cadmium and mercury discharges. today's vote was geared towards adopting the 2012 amendments, which provide for stricter emission limits for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources. this also applies to flexible transitional arrangements which will help to some extent the parties that will accede to the amended protocol by the end of 2019 including the countries of eastern and south-eastern europe. the new amendments also provide, inter alia, for an annual national emission report, which will allow for more effective control of the emission levels in each country. it should be noted, however, that while the adoption of these amendments is undoubtedly an important step, it is imperative that as many countries as possible not only join in putting these principles into practice, but also implement them in the most equitable way possible. otherwise, there will be no real positive effect on the environment.
in writing. ‒ while the previous vote referred to heavy metals as environmental pollutants, this one was about persistent organic pollutants, which are often still used in agriculture (as pesticides, insecticides), electrical engineering (as insulators), motor vehicle manufacturing, the chemical industry, oil refining and many other places. all these elements, while serving and serving various kinds of desired outcomes, are, in general, highly polluting and harmful to health. as with metals, the agreement is to reduce emissions to 1990 levels or equivalent levels from any year in the decade 1985-95. the adoption of the amendments is a crucial step towards more efficient ecological management and, of course, public health, especially in view of the high prevalence of respiratory diseases worldwide - and not only in europe.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aims to promote judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement also contains the principles of operational information exchange and close cooperation and allows ukraine to deploy its cooperation officer to eurojust. the new agreement is just one of a number of agreements recently adopted, the primary objective of which is to intensify eu-ukraine cooperation in as many sectors as possible. the eu and ukraine will continue to cooperate in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of human rights, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the area of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the field of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law, including in the field of the rule of law, and in the field of the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ as this type of agreement between eurojust and third countries is typical, the nature of the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement is very close to that between eurojust and ukraine, which was also voted on here today. there will therefore be closer cooperation between the judicial authorities in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the eusr shall be responsible for the implementation of the mandate of the eusr and for ensuring the consistency of the eusr's mandate with the mandate of the eusr. given the very intense cooperation between the eu and montenegro over the last decade, and the desire of montenegro to integrate more closely with the european union - even unilaterally adopting the euro as its national currency almost a decade ago - the entry into force of this agreement will provide another strong and very positive springboard for the development of our relations.
in writing. ‒ this particular request for waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament arises from the fact that polish member of parliament, mr roberts jaroslavs ivaškevičs, allegedly drove at a speed of 79 km/h in the city on 7 september 2014, whereas the speed limit in urban areas in poland is only 50 km/h. mr ivashkevich himself confirmed that he was indeed driving a speeding car on that date. on 13 august 2015, following a request from the polish road traffic authority sent to the president of the european parliament via the prosecutor general of the republic of poland and the conclusion of the european parliament's legal committee, a decision was taken to waive the immunity of mr ivaškević. i agree with this decision because it is necessary to respect all the principles mentioned in the legislation of the republic of poland and appropriate to situations of this kind and mr ivaškeviča should not be in conflict with the laws of his native country.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous vote on the waiver of the immunity of mep robert jaroslav ivashkevich, this case also concerns speeding. however, unlike in the first case, mr ivaškeviča did not in any way confirm that he was driving at 94 km/h in a 60 km/h zone, although his face is clearly visible in the photograph taken during the exceeding of the speed limit. on the basis of the same as in the first case, namely the request of the polish road traffic directorate sent to the president of the european parliament via the prosecutor general of the republic of poland on 13 august 2015 and the conclusion reached by the legal committee of the european parliament, a decision was taken to waive the immunity of mr ivaškević. i would agree with the decision because no member of the european parliament can have any unresolved conflict with the judicial system of any country.
in writing. ‒ the request to waive the immunity of florian filippo, member of the european parliament, arises from the desire of the high court of the french city of nanterre to bring a legal case against him, based on the relevant qatari claim of misrepresentation by the member, which took place on 9 january 2015 on the radio mr filippo accused qatar of sponsoring terrorism. taking into account at least the nature of the case, the principle of freedom of expression and the fact that the request was made by a third non-eu state, the ep's legal affairs committee decided not to waive mr filippo's immunity. i fully endorse the decision taken in the legal committee and i voted in favour. in parallel, it would be very desirable for qatar itself to do everything possible to avoid being subjected to this type of abuse from the outset, which unfortunately is based on a long list of well-documented funding cases and whose geographical orientation includes both the middle east and the north caucasus as well as other regions of the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. one of the most fundamental prerequisites for the establishment of a legal state and society is, of course, the consent of the population to implement and also actively follow the rules of the existing legal system, in particular those relating to the payment of taxes and, in general, the performance of legal work in general. the creation of a common eu-wide platform to combat undeclared work is therefore essential and necessary, as it will make it possible to combat the shadow economy, illegal financial legalization and other adverse effects on national economies and on citizens as a whole. this platform will bring together representatives of the executive structures of each member state of the european union and experts from the sectors involved; the interests of the state, employers and workers will be respected. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the platform.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. what is the normal and responsible behaviour of a host in his own apartment? regular cleaning, periodic repairs, no cockroaches, no rats, not to mention the need to wash dishes immediately after eating. while it would be too anthropocentric to consider humans as the masters of the earth, this is still true in a way, and therefore it is up to us to a large extent to decide what happens here and what will happen in the future, first of all with the environment, nature and ecology. in other words, we can't act like enemies to ourselves because we don't have another home. the current trends unfortunately mean that it will not be possible to achieve effectively the objectives set for the eu biodiversity strategy, the setting and achievement of realistic periodicity and intermediate objectives, the more rational provision and use of funding, the most active possible cooperation between countries and relations structures, and the more effective and rational implementation of the common fisheries policy by the year 2000.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. i believe it is important to stick to the environmental strategy we have developed, because it is in the long-term interests of our citizens. in addition, environmental protection and biodiversity are increasingly being integrated into other policy areas. it is important that laws are implemented not only on paper but also in practice, because systematic implementation of laws and the achievement of set objectives will benefit people, nature and business.
in writing. biodiversity is seriously threatened both globally and in europe. it is increasingly affected by climate change, increased consumption, and the increasing use of transport and energy resources. human activities are increasing pollution, increasing co2 levels and causing species to become extinct. surveys show that more than 80% of europeans are concerned about the loss of biodiversity, which calls for a responsible environmental policy. preserving biodiversity is important for our health, well-being and well-being, as well as for the health, well-being and well-being of our children and grandchildren. often, in our day-to-day lives, we do not realize how much we depend on such precious ecosystem services as fresh air, clean water, and the raw materials we use to build our homes, for example. i believe that in the future, sustainable financing mechanisms for the protection of biodiversity should be provided. of course, investing in nature and biodiversity requires money, but if we do not act responsibly, the losses in the future will be much greater. we must therefore do everything we can to tackle the root causes of biodiversity loss and to integrate biodiversity into sectoral policies, including agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy and transport. i believe that the report adopted today will help to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy and will prevent biodiversity loss, thereby preserving the planet as clean as possible for future generations.
in writing. ‒ this vote does not in any way concern the temporary suspension of any specific tariff preferences for the republic of moldova it is simply the addition of a specification within the framework of the eu-moldova association agreement, which has already become a standard addition to documents of this type. the commission proposal was, inter alia, supplemented by the need to organise consultations with moldovan representatives, which must take place within 30 days, before any suspension. if no compromise is reached within this period, only then will the commission be able to implement any temporary suspension of tariff preferences. as this vote concerns a perfectly logical amendment to the text, rather than the temporary withdrawal of moldova's trade preferences, there was no reason to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement from the outset included a circumvention mechanism, which allows georgia to re-introduce the most-favoured-nation tariff rate of duty if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain volume without a proper justification of their precise origin. the commission should be able to verify that the conditions for the granting of the union financial assistance are met. the commission proposal also provides that it will submit a public annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation each year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances. in other words, the purpose of this vote was not to introduce any kind of restrictions on eu-georgia trade merely to clarify existing principles and rules, and there was therefore no reason to vote against this proposal and the amendment it contained.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement, signed on 28 june 2013, the full title of which is the marrakesh agreement to facilitate access to printed works for persons who are blind, visually impaired or print disabled for other reasons. the idea was to make it easier to obtain the permission of copyright holders to print texts in specialised formats that could be read by the visually impaired and print disabled. in the case of the eu in particular, the problem is that while the eu and its member states signed the treaty in april 2014, there are still a total of seven countries that effectively block full ratification of the treaty. currently, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are accessible to people with visual impairments. in 2010, there were 2.55 million blind and 23.8 million visually impaired people in europe a total of 26.35 million. in other words, the fact that we still do not fully ratify the marrakesh treaty and start implementing its principles in a meaningful way is simply absurd and totally illogical, given the long-standing efforts of the eu and its member states to guarantee the maximum rights for all its citizens.
in writing. ‒ as i supported resolutions b8-0135/2016 and b8-0134/2016, i also supported and voted for the european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2). the european commission has to come up with a better proposal on licensing procedures. the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos. the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
in writing. ‒ this objection relates to the commission's wish to authorise the placing on the market of the genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 developed by bayer cropscience ag as a food, food ingredient and feed ingredient. one of the reasons why the european parliament voted against was that these beans synthesise the protein 2mepsps, which confers resistance to glyphosate herbicides, and on 20 march 2015 the international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a possible human carcinogen. in view of the above, and also of the fact that the commission proposal is not in line with union law, such as regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, the amendments to which the european parliament refused to approve following the commission proposal in october 2015, it was not possible to vote on the commission proposal again, and therefore i voted for the ep's rejection decision.
in writing. i have always advocated that latvia and the european union as a whole should be free of genetically modified organisms (gmos). we cannot allow the health of our citizens to be jeopardised in the name of economic interests. it is regrettable that this is the latest occasion on which the european commission, contrary to the member states' position, wishes to give the green light to the placing on the market of new gmo products, using the powers conferred on it by law. gmo soybeans are resistant to glyphosate, which the international agency for research on cancer has classified as a possible human carcinogen. this time, the ec not only ignored national concerns about the harmfulness of gmos, but also ignored studies by the world health organization agency on glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. in the light of the studies carried out by the world health organisation agency on glyphosate and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted against the placing on the market of these three gmo soybeans. furthermore, i believe that the existing legislative procedure should be amended to give greater decision-making powers to both the european parliament and the states when granting authorisations for the placing on the market of new gmo food and feed products, thus ensuring more effective democratic control and respect for the public interest.
in writing. ‒ as i supported resolutions b8-0133/2016 and b8-0135/2016, i also supported and voted for the european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1). the european commission has to come up with a better proposal on licensing procedures. the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos. the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous vote on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2, this vote concerns genetically modified soybeans mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 developed by monsanto europe s.a. they synthesize the protein cp4 epsps, which gives resistance to glyphosate herbicides. as mentioned above, on 20 march 2015 the international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a possible human carcinogen. the standard procedure in accordance with eu legal practice for the placing on the market of new genetically modified products requires close cooperation between the commission and national services, which has not been done regularly or at all for some time. as a result, the commission often ignores concerns in the union regarding the placing on the market of genetically modified products. as the commission proposal is again incompatible with eu law, it was decided to reject it, which i support, and therefore to vote for the ep's rejection decision.
in writing. i have always advocated that latvia and the european union as a whole should be free of genetically modified organisms (gmos). we cannot allow the health of our citizens to be jeopardised in the name of economic interests. it is regrettable that this is the latest occasion on which the european commission, contrary to the member states' position, wishes to give the green light to the placing on the market of new gmo products, using the powers conferred on it by law. gmo soybeans are resistant to glyphosate, which the international agency for research on cancer has classified as a possible human carcinogen. this time, the ec not only ignored national concerns about the harmfulness of gmos, but also ignored studies by the world health organization agency on glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. in the light of the studies carried out by the world health organisation agency on glyphosate and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted against the placing on the market of these three gmo soybeans. furthermore, i believe that the existing legislative procedure should be amended to give greater decision-making powers to both the european parliament and the states when granting authorisations for the placing on the market of new gmo food and feed products, thus ensuring more effective democratic control and respect for the public interest.
in writing. ‒ as i supported resolutions b8-0133/2016 and b8-0134/2016, i also supported and voted for the european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1). the european commission should come up with a better proposal on licensing procedures. the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos. the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
in writing. ‒ about 4,5 years ago, monsanto europe s.a. submitted an application to the relevant dutch official authorities for authorisation to place genetically modified soybean mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1 on the market. in view of the existence of a single market, this submission was forwarded to the commission, which would like to approve it. similar to the vote earlier today, these beans synthesize the protein cp4 epsps, which confers resistance to glyphosate herbicides, while the international agency for research on cancer has classified glyphosate as a possible human carcinogen. the fact that the existence of various genetically modified products and their components has already become a daily reality in our single market makes it categorically unacceptable to place products on the market without having gone through all the legally required consultations which the commission has not yet carried out. this is largely why the european parliament voted against the existing proposal. my vote was therefore returned for the ep's rejection.
in writing. i have always advocated that latvia and the european union as a whole should be free of genetically modified organisms (gmos). we cannot allow the health of our citizens to be jeopardised in the name of economic interests. it is regrettable that this is the latest occasion on which the european commission, contrary to the member states, has used its legislative powers to give the green light to the placing on the market of new gmo products. gmo soybeans are resistant to glyphosate, which the international agency for research on cancer has classified as a possible human carcinogen. this time, the ec not only ignored national concerns about the harmfulness of gmos, but also ignored studies by the world health organization agency on glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. in the light of the studies carried out by the world health organisation agency on glyphosate and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted against the placing on the market of these three gmo soybeans. furthermore, i believe that the existing legislative procedure should be amended to give greater decision-making powers to both the european parliament and the states when granting authorisations for the placing on the market of new gmo food and feed products, thus ensuring more effective democratic control and respect for the public interest.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the recent car emissions scandal, the european commission has come up with legislation to test new car models for compliance with eu environmental standards. this legislation is a major step towards restoring consumer confidence, as the tests will be carried out in real driving conditions on the road, rather than in a laboratory as is the case now. if the european commission's proposal were rejected, we would lose many months or even years before a new regulation was drawn up. the current offer also gives a clear signal and rules for the automotive industry. for the above reasons, i voted against the european parliament's request to withdraw the legislation proposed by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ even if freight and other vehicles are excluded, large passenger and commercial vehicles represent one of the most important emission groups in terms of percentage, alongside industry, agriculture and various other sectors. therefore, the strictest possible compliance with and non-compliance with the emission levels (mg/km) set is of fundamental importance, especially in the european union, given our overall ecology and environmental protection policy, not to mention emission quotas. the vote concerned the recent draft commission implementing decision on which the technical committee on motor vehicles (tcmv) published its opinion on 28 october 2015. the commission notes that the new standard is based on the principle of the 'zero emission' principle, which is the principle that all new vehicles must be equipped with a vehicle with a low emission limit. as a result, the european parliament concluded that the draft implementing decision supported by the commission was not in line with regulation (eu) no 715/2007, let alone that the commission had in fact decided to go against several principles that had been largely defended throughout the years. i therefore voted unanimously in favour of the ep's decision to reject the commission's proposal.
you guys! the agreement on trade in services is a global potential agreement on the liberalization of international trade in services in the areas of banking, health, transport, among others. the european union and the united states are the main proponents of this agreement, and moreover, the g7 countries are in the supporting camp. the european parliament particularly noted the need for the agreement to have an impact on the maximum number of people and to have a positive impact on job creation and inclusive growth. i would like to take particular note, colleagues, of the recommendation on the transparency of international roaming and the need to exclude public services cultural and audiovisual services from the tisa negotiations, with the aim, for example, of guaranteeing the maximum preservation of cultural heritage, especially in new countries, and i have assessed this decision very positively overall.
you guys! i joined the majority of meps in wanting to see a new strategy of high quality as soon as possible. after 2015, i really do call on the commission to develop a full-fledged project, rather than a working document, as they say, for the service. and, most importantly, it should contain principles that build on the success and real results of the previous strategy up to 2015. it could open up active negotiations not only between the commission, parliament and the council, but also involve as many other institutions as possible, european union agencies and so on. and the same goes for the strategy itself: it would be better if the next strategy had a deadline of 2020, despite the fact that in 2019 we will have to hand over a new european parliament and, consequently, a new commission, but it would be good if the next five years were the deadline for the next strategy.
madam president, after kosovo’s unilateral declaration of independence in early 2008, the eu almost immediately initiated kosovo’s european integration process. the same applies to assuming the mantle of chief intermediary between belgrade and pristina, and i think there are two key points. first, if kosovans truly want to become part of our family of nations, european values of respect towards democracy, freedom of speech, good governance and others have to be fully respected. this is not conditional – it is obligatory. second, kosovo and serbia have to reach a mutually-satisfactory compromise, paving the way to long-term peace and cooperation. serbians’ attitude towards kosovo is that of grieving, disgruntled people who have lost their historic homeland. this mutual understanding has to resolve this serious injury. and, of course, there can be no eu membership perspective for kosovo unless all our member states recognise it as independent. cyprus, greece, romania, as you know, slovakia and spain – 5 out of 28 – have not yet done it, each for their own reasons.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the last few years have not been easy for relations between the european union and serbia. balancing the choice of the future path with the historical memory the factors of civil war and nato bombing, the normalization of relations with kosovo, the other neighbours, the need to choose between the european union and russia in general (although it should not be so at all) all this now plays a fundamental role in the life of present-day serbia and will continue to play in the coming years and even decades. however, serbia is initiating and actively implementing a number of reforms in order to move closer to the european union in economic, political, social and legislative terms. it has a very important role to play in the context of the european migrant crisis, given the challenges that are there, and so on, and while there are still a number of challenges that need to be addressed before the country joins the european union family of countries, i cannot imagine europe, the western balkans, the balkans without serbia.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. as we know, colleagues, kosovo unilaterally declared its independence and five member states of the european union have still not recognised it. but it is clear that it is not possible to cooperate and fully implement all documents until the state of kosovo has normal relations with its neighbours and with serbia. but that's just the first aspect. the second aspect is, of course, the fight against corruption. the transit of drugs to europe, the extremely high unemployment rate and other factors are objectively levelling off the progress that the state of kosovo is making towards integration with the european union. of course i support this resolution by voting in favour. but it must be acknowledged that there is so much to be done for both the european union and the state of kosovo that there is a number of urgent tasks ahead.
thank you very much, mr president. as we know, libya has been in the grip of a brutal civil war this year, with violence, with thousands of people becoming refugees. and it is not clear that the agreement signed on september 17th through the un on the council of deputies and the new general national congress will bring the long-awaited peace to the libyan people. however, at present it is the only document on the table. libya in general is potentially one of the richest countries in africa and in the wider middle east region. in the abstract, but certainly not forgetting the problems that existed under muammar gaddafi, the standard of living in the country under gaddafi was very high. while this was also largely dependent on hydrocarbon prices, a similar level is again achievable. and so we must all join together to help libya return to the family of civilized nations.
thank you, mr president. there are, it must be said, a vast number of islands of all kinds - continents, volcanoes, corals, large and small, inhabited and uninhabited. and small islands often face a much greater challenge than the mainland, because of limited resources and the need to develop specific infrastructure to connect them to the mainland, to their own country. all this is clearly relevant to the european union, and it is therefore necessary to have the utmost clarity on the community's island policy. the funding, the programs, the classification of the islands themselves, and so on. clarity is needed to develop an effective strategy for further development, and it is worth noting that, if we go a little too far, nauru's example is one of a different relationship with islands. in short, i support this document.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the budget of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020 is eur 454 billion. it is about employment, the internal market, energy, the economy, monetary issues, migration, everything. and while there is a focus on both rural and urban areas, the fact is that each year it is cities that play an increasingly important role in policy-making at all levels. and that is why we give them the greatest attention in the esif. if i were to take a moment to reflect on the fact that in my country, latvia, too, citizens are migrating en masse from latvia to mainly western european countries, the esif has given a huge boost to the urban development of my country. in particular, in the digital field, in the renovation of housing, in the renewal of municipal infrastructure and so on. i therefore support this approach, i voted in favour. and given that the commission must be the main factor in the creation of the esif, we must clearly give it the utmost attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. whether the islamic state has literally acted on the tenets of islam or has completely distorted them, one thing is certain: there are no normal people in the group. because very simply, what is happening in the middle east at any given moment has nothing to do with humanity. while daesh actively oppresses muslims, it is nothing compared to what these beasts do to minorities christians, yazidis, shabakis and other non-believers can convert to islam or die. there is no other alternative. ancient communities that have existed since before islam even existed are threatened with total destruction. they're looking for shelter. they went on the run. in this regard, i would like to express my heartfelt thanks to those who organized the transport of 149 assyrian refugees from northern iraq to slovakia last december. these people, by the way, are the last to speak the language of jesus aramaic. support for the resolution.
in writing. physical attacks on religious and ethnic minorities, arabs and sunnis, sexual violence against women and girls, trafficking in human beings, forced child labour these and other crimes are the unthinkable crimes of the so-called islamic state (daesh). in the resolution, we supported the view that under the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc), all these horrific violations of human rights amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes, which should be recognised as genocide by the un security council. unfortunately, the terrorist group also receives support for its criminal activities from several un member states this is considered a violation of international law. we therefore call on those states directly and indirectly involved in the commission of the crime against humanity to comply with their legal obligations under international law and to cease these unacceptable actions, which cause immense damage to the societies of iraq and syria and seriously destabilise neighbouring states and international peace and security. it is equally important that eu member states work actively to root out radicalisation at home by improving their judicial and jurisdictional systems to prevent eu citizens from being able to join the islamic state terrorist group.
mr president, transportation is one of the key areas in both the european and adriatic macro-regional strategies. for example, the recent danube transnational programme, with a budget of eur 222 million, should not only contribute to more effective water-management and flood-risk prevention policies, innovation or cross-border institutional capacity but also the creation of a modern regional railway system accessible to both numerous urban and rural dwellers, as well as flight transport. the same applies to the adriatic macro-region. with its growing seaports and traffic, investment is necessary to maximise the region’s economic potential. the european structural and investment funds are just one of the possible sources. moreover, in parallel to upgrading cross-border transportation capacity, not only telecommunications, postal services, law enforcement and other public services would improve, but there would also be benefits for people-to-people contact, which, aside from the pure economy, is the most important goal of all.
madam president, revision of the pet travel scheme has, regrettably, not made the system more effective, due to frequent abuses. the introduction of a compatible system for the registration of pet animals across member states would make cross-border supervision of the animal trade, travel or pet vaccination much easier. as a result, these long-overdue changes, ideally combined with appropriate data exchange, would contribute to dealing with various disease outbreak threats, amongst other things. many people have to leave behind, sell, cast out or even euthanise their pets simply due to being unable to take them along with them when going abroad, precisely due to pet registration system differences in our countries, and for no other reason. i have to say that the cause of mutual integration within the eu has contributed to the gradual alignment of an identity documentation system for its inhabitants – passports, ids, diplomas and the like. the same should undoubtedly apply to our pet animals.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters was signed in 1965 and entered into force in 1969, replacing the previously active convention on civil procedure adopted in 1905. the main objective is to guarantee the possibility for official bodies of all kinds and ordinary people to transmit official documents between countries without using diplomatic channels, thus issuing them in other signatory states. malta has already ratified this convention a few years ago, while austria has yet to do so after the relevant consent process has been completed in the institutions of the european union, including the european parliament. while i am somewhat surprised that these countries are the last in the european union not to have fully acceded to this convention, i welcome this step. the cross-border service of documents is an integral part of international jurisprudence and other fields, the effective implementation of which should be promoted in all possible ways, and today another very important contribution was made in this regard.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of liechtenstein two and a half months ago, today's vote concerned the european union-san marino agreement on the exchange of financial information on bank account holders. this agreement has the potential to foster more effective international cooperation in the field of tax policy and to promote the legitimation of the income of eu citizens directly through the full payment of these taxes. compared to other countries, san marino has never been a major player among low-tax havens such as liechtenstein itself or switzerland. however, the signing of this agreement is clearly of great importance, as it will not only increase tax transparency, but in principle stimulate further improvement of relations between our community of nations and san marino, and of course, eliminate another tax paradise, actual or potential.
in writing. ‒ more than four years ago, croatia became the 28th member state of the european union. since then, a series of different agreements, protocols and conventions have had to be brought into line with the nature of the enlarged community. the 2011 act of accession of croatia introduced a simplified framework that helps croatia and the eu to continue adapting the remaining agreements to the new digital reality. in this particular case, a positive vote will help to harmonise eu financial mechanisms and related policies ever more closely. croatia's accession to the conventions on the protection of the european community's financial interests is precisely of this nature and therefore it was logical to fully support it.
chairman! employment policy is one of the primary aspects of the european union's nature and therefore the rationalisation of the mobility system in parallel with the further integration of labour markets is entirely to be welcomed. i support that. it is logical that citizens of our countries, when working in another member state, should receive similar remuneration and, in general, the same working conditions as all other employees performing such tasks, irrespective of their nationality, that is, irrespective of their citizenship. if we really live in a single union and the well-being of each country and individual depends to a large extent on the others, there can be no discrimination in this respect at all, and it is commendable that this is included in this report. the eures portal has become increasingly active in recent years in helping hundreds of thousands of europeans to find work both in their own member states and in other member states. however, i agree that the current system needs a comprehensive reform.
chairman! since the change of regime in tunisia more than five years ago, its economy has embarked on a long-term path of reform, a process of restructuring. however, there are some sectors which remain as the primary national industries. before the revolution, it was the seventh largest city in the world. as in several other similar cases, a decision was taken today to support the tunisian economy by introducing a temporary quota for olive oil imports to the european union of 35000 tonnes (that's a lot!) for two years until the end of 2017. and this is welcome, at least because not only is tunisia one of the eu's most important partners in the south, but also because its assistance is in some ways boosting internal stability, growth, which indirectly affects us as well.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up almost a decade ago to provide financial support to european companies that have made redundancies or otherwise lost employees as a result of trade liberalisation. in the present case, this concerned 412 employees of two belgian glass companies, together with 100 young people who were not in employment. the total cost will be eur 1095544. human capital is the most important resource of any country and everything must be done to avoid its loss and to continue to use it productively. a positive vote today was needed to enable more than two thousand people to integrate or reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible and to continue to apply (and receive) and share with colleagues the experience gained over many years, thus positively affecting themselves and their surroundings and the european union economy as a whole.
chairman! the growth and development of the european union's economy is the cornerstone of the community's existence, and this report, which follows the commission's annual growth survey, is particularly welcome. promoting economic reforms, facilitating the exchange of views and debate among all stakeholders (including national parliaments, social partners, civil society) is essential for the successful and productive long-term recovery and further development of the union economy. i joined the rapporteur in saying that investment, fiscal policy and structural reforms should also be complemented by close monitoring of domestic demand. while the idea of a free market is in itself largely logical, it must be said that the specificity of the existing demand, which clearly affects all other areas, cannot be ignored. i'll back you up.
chairman! support for housing, continuing renovation, health protection, child and youth policy, elderly policy... although only partially mentioned in this report, this set of measures of fundamental importance is absolutely vital for the whole of the european union, and in particular for my country, latvia. i would like to emphasise once again the special emphasis on children and youth policy. because, to put it figuratively, if you don't pay attention to the development of a fruit tree or, say, a strawberry plant, there's a chance that nothing good will grow or grow but it won't be particularly edible. but children are the jewels of our lives, and we must do everything we can to ensure that they grow up happy, socially, spiritually, morally. this is very important. that's task number one. and that's why i supported this decision.
chairman! what's important about this report? there has to be transparency, there has to be openness. it's the same thing. the european standardisation system should have been updated and its use in the field of information and communication technologies increased. the principle of mutual recognition and its maximum respect and a fairer administration of public procurement are of fundamental importance, as the full functioning of the single market is simply not possible without effective reforms in these areas. the same, it should be said, applies to a clearer division of competences between the different levels of management in order to avoid duplication of functions. i'm all for it.
chairman! historically, relations between europe and tunisia have always been a very active regime, and in recent years this has only intensified due to the change of regime in this north african country. and our european union is tunisia's primary economic partner, especially in trade in agricultural products, and this cooperation is only getting stronger every year. it is therefore time to take the next step in our relationship, to intensify the negotiations on a potential free trade agreement. this is particularly logical given that the eu-tunisia association council met on 17 march last year and adopted an action plan for the establishment of a privileged partnership. and our community's efforts to develop relations with the eu-mediterranean partnership region will, i hope, be successful. so i'm with you.
chairman! in general, the ombudsman's primary task is to promote the protection of citizens' rights. if every member state of the european union has such a post, such an ombudsman or such a law-enforcement officer, then the european ombudsman has much broader responsibilities. for example, in 2014 specifically, issues such as fundamental rights, lobbying systems, transparency of public authorities, european union institutions, etc. were the focus of the ombudsman's attention, and this is very good, as, for example, 20% to 30% of all complaints were directly related to the principle of transparency and its breaches. for example, it is understandable to some extent that access to documents is restricted, but our citizens still have a right to know what is happening in the european union. for example, the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which has been mentioned several times. why is the conversation confidential? it is imperative that we be as open as possible to our citizens.
chairman! the financial crisis of 2008-2009 was a crisis whose effects are still being felt, but the new, ever-evolving international reality often leaves the european union's economy in a periodic state of fever. the european central bank's policy in this respect is generally helping to overcome the consequences of this crisis in a sufficiently effective way. of course, there are distinct shortcomings of various kinds in its policies, such as different financial and credit policies for different member states. however, the european central bank's efforts to regulate inflation and stimulate economic growth cannot be ignored. i have to say that in my country, latvia, a prime minister called the pre-crisis years the lean years, and in order for us to return to the lean years, we have to stimulate investment in entrepreneurship.
chairman! although australia and new zealand are geographically very far away from the european union, there has been quite intense contact between the two sides since the beginning of the 20th century, and both australia and new zealand have been included in the western civilization, in the western countries. i would say that both australia and new zealand are now trying to diversify their trade links as much as possible, and in that respect they have a lot in common with us, the european union. given the production structures, the diversity of goods and the principles of economic policy management in both countries, a rapprochement with the european union is entirely possible. this is not fantastic or unrealistic, especially when it comes to regulating the law. the opening of negotiations on free trade agreements with these countries is therefore absolutely welcome, and i voted in favour.
chairman! pets are an integral part of our lives. they are our pets, sometimes our friends, helpers, allies. for lonely people, it may be the only friend they have. and of course, some people have not only cats and birds in their homes, but also camels, rats, guinea pigs. there are cases where people also keep crocodiles and rabbits, but anyway, if we are talking about the most endangered pet variants - dogs and cats - it is long past time to harmonise the maximum, to standardise the maximum existing registration systems in all our member states, because this would not only help to facilitate the possibility of transport across borders, but also help to fight, including, against animal smuggling, because we know that this problem exists in the european union, and it is extremely important.
in writing. unfortunately, there are cases in europe where pets are kept in poor conditions and illegally traded. illegally sold pets are not vaccinated, do not receive the necessary medicines in case of viral infection, and do not receive veterinary and sanitary care, which often results in treatment with antibiotics that can increase microbial resistance. these unvaccinated animals are dangerous to humans they carry more than 100 different diseases, including rabies. seventy percent of the new diseases affecting humans that have appeared in recent decades are of animal origin. the eu national databases in which each member state registers pet data are not yet compatible. consequently, there are limited possibilities for tracing animals that are moved within the eu. i therefore support compatible eu requirements for the identification and registration of pet animals. they will improve animal welfare, public and animal health protection and reduce the falsification of animal documents and illegal trade.
chairman! clearly, yemen has been the poorest country in the arabian peninsula region for decades. the revolution that happened a few years ago, five years ago, didn't change the situation, it made it worse. and it's clear that in the present moment, the recent intervention by saudi arabia, alongside iran's support for the religiously-based hussites, has greatly exacerbated the already dramatic situation of the civilian population, because the sheer military activity and the opacity of it, the unclear routes of arms delivery that are hidden there, it's all horrifying. it is therefore clear that the implementation and enforcement of the arms embargo against saudi arabia is also of the utmost importance for the european union in order to improve the humanitarian situation in yemen. i therefore support this document.
chairman! this vote concerns animal resistance and the measures to be taken to combat it. first, the frequency of antibiotic use, reducing it, and using antimicrobials more carefully. in parallel, member states were invited to become more active in collecting relevant data on the use of such medicines and to send this data to the european commission, which i consider to be extremely important. this will facilitate multinational data collection and more effective action and the development and implementation of action strategies. given that our health depends on the health of animals, for example, diseases can spread through animals and so on. this is a very important resolution. i'm holding it with both hands. regardless of our dietary preferences, the health of our animals is also our health. that's why i voted yes. thank you.
chairman! the health and effective upbringing of our children, their education in school - that is the cornerstone of our union, that is our future. no children, no future. you know that. i therefore support the view that the provision of fresh fruit, vegetables and milk - both regular milk and lactose-free milk - in schools is a very important and meaningful set of measures. the positive thing is that if we do that, we can also support our european union farming sector in a parallel way, particularly in my country, latvia, where the sector has suffered greatly from the introduction of russian counter-sanctions, and in general cheese, bananas, yoghurt, nuts and fresh food are much healthier than lemonades, chips and everything else that is sold in our schools that contains chemicals. in total, the annual funding will be eur 250 million - eur 150 for fruit, eur 100 for milk - and i hope we will also ensure a fair distribution of funding between member states. help, thank you!
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on a proposal for a support scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. i consider that promoting children's health is a very important task in the european union and therefore this initiative is to be supported. the rules adopted in plenary provide for the merger of the eu school milk and fruit programmes and an increase of their annual budget by eur 20 million. member states will be able to choose or participate in this eu programme on a voluntary basis, provided that healthy eating habits and training on healthy eating are also significantly promoted at national level. this issue has also recently become relevant in latvia, and i believe that additional funding will help many member states to both raise awareness of healthy eating and introduce healthy eating habits.
in writing. school milk and fruit programmes are a great way to teach healthy eating habits that children unfortunately do not always learn at home. statistics also show that children eat unhealthily and are too sedentary more than 20 million eu children are overweight and teenagers on average eat only 30% to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. the situation in latvia is not good either. studies show that one in four primary school pupils is overweight. i am therefore pleased that we have been able to allocate an additional 20 million from the eu's annual budget to the school milk and school cereal programmes. given the increased funding and the revised criteria for allocating funds, including the level of development of the regions, we can expect latvian schools to be beneficiaries. i believe that this programme should not only provide products in schools, but also promote healthier eating habits, stimulate local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production and the fight against food waste. schools should also ensure that children are kept in touch with farming, for example by visiting farms. i believe that this programme will be both an immediate and a long-term support for our farmers, who are currently facing difficulties in realising their production, especially in the dairy sector.
chairman! of course, historically and today, ports play a huge, enormous role in the european union's economy, and it is clear that a more transparent, fairer system of governance is entirely welcome. for example, as we know, the commission has recently launched an investigation into the cases of financial support for ports in france, the netherlands and belgium, and of course we need new rules, but we cannot ignore national specificities and we cannot fail to point out that we cannot make a comparison, for example, between the port of rotterdam in the netherlands and the tiny, micro-small port of skultė in my country, latvia. and of course, national specificities also play a huge role in how ports operate. and we can't under any circumstances forget about the rights of workers, because the unions tell us that unification is absolutely impossible. that's why i voted to postpone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as i believe that the regulation will help to attract additional investment and also ensure the development of latvian ports. when we go to the store to buy something, we can find out, for example, what the product is made of, where it comes from, and other information that may be useful. similarly, investors before they make an investment, they want to know the rules of the game. investors must be clear about how prices for the use of infrastructure and other services are set. the port authorities are therefore required to provide transparent service charges. the port authorities will also have to ensure financial transparency in the use of public funding. i believe that the latvian people will benefit from the transparency of our port activities, and that such improvements will attract investors who will develop them and create new jobs, which is why i supported the proposal.
in writing. i believe that the third step has been taken by the european parliament to prepare a proposal for a regulation on market access to port services and financial transparency systems for ports, which is acceptable to all parties. it is clear that there is a need to improve transparency in the european union, including latvia, in relation to the setting of port charges and the public funding received. where the port authority receives public funding, it must be transparent and separate accounts must be kept for the activities financed from public funds. the establishment of a single port system in the eu would not be appropriate, as port systems in the member states are highly diverse, with many different models for the organisation of port services and port management. nor do i think that the introduction of free competition between eu ports is right. such a system would put shipping companies in a privileged position, putting particularly small ports, including latvia, at risk. it should be noted that a large number of shipping companies are not eu companies at all. for example, the setting of charges for the use of port infrastructure is certainly left to the port administration. the commission notes that the port authorities have not provided any evidence that the port is in a state of disrepair.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on improving the efficiency of port operations, i supported the european parliament's position on the port services regulation and its further development. although this is the third attempt to regulate port services at european level and there are still a number of contradictions, the commission's proposal has been considerably improved by the european parliament, and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the long search for compromise. in terms of content, i would like to emphasise that important improvements have been made in parliament's position, such as the absence of the principle of free competition in the regulation of port services, thus recognising the diversity of ports and allowing the different models of port management and organisation of services currently established in the member states at national level to be maintained. i also appreciated the fact that the port authority could set the charges for the use of the port infrastructure autonomously. in the case of port charges, on the other hand, a number of fundamental principles of transparency and non-discrimination will have to be respected. in the case of public funding, i consider that the transparency and the determination of the transparency of the use of funds, by separating the activities carried out with public funds, is proportionate and will not be a significant obstacle to the development of ports. the european parliament's position adopted today provides a good basis for negotiations with the council with a view to adopting the final version of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the current system for calculating the hicp is based on regulation (ec) no 2494/95. the new regulation thus aims to replace the old one by modernising it to incorporate the innovations in union decision-making introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which will allow the european commission to adopt implementing and delegated acts through eurostat. the latter will, inter alia, help to define appropriate methodologies for the compilation of harmonised indices among member states and to modernise the weights of the sub-indices of the harmonised index of consumer prices. due to the specificities of the member states, sub-indices will not be necessary in cases such as drugs, instant lotteries, prostitution, life insurance and indirectly measurable financial intermediation services. on the other hand, it will be necessary for sampling and representativeness, price collection and analysis, substitution and quality adjustment, index preparation, revision, special index and in the case of products processed in specific areas. in a slightly simpler way, one of the main tasks of the new regulation, by effectively adapting its principles to the practice of the member states, will be to guarantee a fair pricing policy as far as possible, so as to disadvantage consumers, particularly the most vulnerable, such as pensioners or needy families.
chairman! the overall impact of non-fraud related irregularities increased by 36% in 2014 compared to 2013. and, in turn, the number of known infringements rose by 48% to over 16,000. add to this the fact that, according to a recently published report by the european court of auditors, the level of error spread on the expenditure side of the community budget for 2014 amounts to 4,4% or more than 6,3 billion of the total expenditure. it's a huge amount of money, and it was spent very inefficiently. the losses due to corruption at union level now amount to €120 billion, and these are only official figures. we don't know anything about unofficials, colleagues. the commission's proposal to make it compulsory to publish all documents is therefore welcome and i support it. thank you.
chairman! it is a very unfortunate fact that we had to draw up such a report in principle, because, although the european parliament may not accept all kinds of documents, resolutions and so on, we are not really ideal, especially in the field of gender equality. gender equality is a very important aspect of political action and if all the guidelines are adopted in the work of the european parliament, then it can be reasonably hoped that it will be effective and that these changes will also be a good example for other organisations and institutions at national and local level to also implement in practice all the principles we are talking about here in this document. so i have to say that i voted for it and i'm proud of it.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i abstained when voting on the report on an integrated approach to gender equality in the work of the european parliament. i support the promotion of equality between women and men and believe that important steps are being taken more and more often and that there is progress. however, as regards the disproportionate requirements for the provision of a quota for women at all levels of the european parliament, i consider that binding rules only hamper efficiency and are disproportionate. i also believe that the rights of women and men are already respected and taken into account in parliament. there is equality between women and men in parliament, and everyone has the same rights and opportunities. i support an integrated approach to gender equality, but i believe that the report places too much pressure on parliament and could harm the efficiency of its work.
chairman! these are just official figures, that from the beginning of 2015 to november, 38% of all refugees who have applied for asylum in the european union are women and children, and since january of this year, more than 55% of women and children in greece alone. it is clear that women, children, the poor - these are the most vulnerable members of society, especially in situations of military conflict. we must therefore demonstrate and create all the conditions for the full realization and observance of human rights also in relation to this category, as it is the most discriminated against women and children. i welcome the objectives proposed in the report, which are precisely oriented towards this aspect, and it is clear that we in the european union must do everything possible to ensure that the high standards of human rights that exist within our union are applied to absolutely all people. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the issue of refugee women and their situation as they seek refuge and flee war-torn areas becomes a pressing issue during the migration crisis. the facts speak for themselves since january 2016, of all asylum seekers arriving in greece, 55% were women and children. we need to talk about this issue to understand what are the possible ways to best help these women and children, because this is the group that is most at risk and may be the most vulnerable in terms of overcoming the difficulties in seeking safe refuge. it is clear that the gender dimension of refugees is also an important issue in migration policy-making. i believe that women with children are the main group that needs to be helped. however, since i believe that this report touches not only on the subject in question but also on the issue of migration policy, thus changing the nature of the report, i abstained from voting on this report.
madam president, there are numerous cases known where children, even below the age of criminal responsibility, commit terrible crimes going far beyond theft or vandalism: murder, rape, assault, kidnapping. nonetheless, they have to be treated as underage which, however, applies to proceedings and not necessarily to verdicts. in the case of charges brought against a person over the age of 18 for crimes allegedly committed when they were still under age, specific rules have to be followed, amongst them the right to mandatory assistance by a lawyer, to medical examination, to specific treatment, to individual assessment, and rules on questioning, are especially important. moreover, those dealing with such persons have to be properly trained in order to effectively assess the situation at every stage of the proceedings and beyond. in the end, however, it usually comes down to upbringing, education, relations with family members, a sense of belonging and many other things as well as a positive outside influence amongst other important factors. without the quality of this there can regretfully be no happy childhood or youth, which creates a most fertile ground for unlawful behaviour during these periods of life.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. according to official statistics, about one million children are prosecuted in various forms of criminal proceedings in the european union each year, representing about 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings in the european union. the treatment and legal framework of child criminal proceedings vary widely between member states. nor is there a statutory definition of the concept of 'fair trial for children'. the draft proposal for this directive was thus intended to set minimum rules, to define the package clearly, to create an appropriate set of rights for children. this is very good, it is welcome and it is important to note that the directive will also apply to those who have reached the age of 18 but have not yet reached the age of 21. however, the logical perspective would be to extend this directive or to develop a new one that would directly apply to children aged 14 and over.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. clearly, the guidelines' main thrust was to obtain additional funding outside the limits of the multiannual financial framework. rationalize as much as possible and, most importantly, coordinate with the larger member states, from which these funds could also come. but of course, it is also welcome that the commitment to the implementation of horizon 2020, support for the digital market, the erasmus+ programme and the budget allocations for the sme policy has been reiterated. among other things, the parallel between entrepreneurship, especially among young people, education, welfare and their systems should be a priority in the european union budget. in conclusion, i would of course like to note that the additional €2 billion in aid to greece will also be able to provide this member state with the much-needed impetus and to combat the current internal economic instability more effectively. i voted yes.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. it is clear that the legislative process in the european union must be of such high quality, otherwise it affects more than half a billion people. in all areas, from culture to education. and it is clear that, when it comes to this document, the idea of taking smes into account is a welcome one. because it is smes that make up the absolute majority of our community's enterprises and the economic backbone of the union. i also think it is a good idea to simplify the legislative process as much as possible. it is no secret that the majority of the european union's citizens have no idea what goes on in the european institutions, and that is why we need to bring these institutions closer to the people our voters. and finally, it is clear that there is an important exchange of views between parliament, the council and the commission, which is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i have to say that the amount of smuggled and counterfeited tobacco products stopped in my country latvia is increasing every year. this is good, but on the other hand it is clear that the people in the poorest regions are smuggling cigarettes in the context of the crisis and the post-crisis period. it's obvious. and the state is powerless here. until we give them legal work, the smuggling will continue. i would also like to join in and regret the fact that the commission took so long to produce a technical assessment of the implementation of the philip morris international agreement and the lessons learned. the report was only published on 24 february 2016, although it should have been published in may last year. but it is clear that the counterfeiting of tobacco products, in general, although it is an illegal business, is green in some countries of the european union. we must have guidelines to limit this illegal business. i support that.
madam president, i will speak now in my capacity as vice—chair of the central asia delegation. in this capacity, i prefer mutually respectful, equal dialogue with kazakhstan. the eu has a vital interest in stepping up strategic cooperation with such an important international actor as kazakhstan. therefore, i would like to pose the following question to my colleagues. unless it decently calls into question kazakhstan’s ambition to be a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the un security council in 2017-2018, do we have the moral right, as cavalierly as is made out in the resolution, to teach kazakhstan on the questions concerning freedom of expression while we ourselves behave badly in the very same area? last december our parliament accepted the resolution saying that measures taken over the past few years in hungary have led to a serious systematic deterioration in the situation as regards the rule of law and fundamental rights, inter alia freedom of expression. this january we hotly debated the rule of law and media independence in poland. in my own country, latvia, the parliament has just adopted at first reading new provisions in criminal law which are aimed at sentencing to imprisonment for even non—violent actions against the state, that is independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, and also for cooperation with foreign organisations against the security interests of the state. i myself sharply condemn attacks on freedom of expression elsewhere in the world. therefore, i am sure that we have to fight for these freedoms together, but not against each other.
chairman! commissioner, mr hana, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, the situation with freedom of speech in kazakhstan is far from ideal. there is much to be done here by both the government of kazakhstan and civil society. i know several bloggers and journalists personally, including vladimir kozlov's wife, because before i became a member of the european parliament here, as a journalist, i gave them the opportunity to speak and express their views, because they didn't have that opportunity in kazakhstan. but the reality is quite different. how can we teach kazakhstan in light of what is happening in our own homes? recently in my country latvia a man named maksims koptelovs was sentenced to a real six-month prison term just for writing on the internet about latvia's possible accession to russia, and that was a joke, he added. we socialists condemn this attitude, but it is also a huge violation of freedom of speech.
chairman! this proposal marks the latest effort by the european union to further develop community legislation on animals living next to us, since in principle veterinary medicines are often used not to treat or improve animal health but also to guarantee health for us humans, i.e. consumers of animal products. the main objectives of this draft legislative resolution are to improve access to the necessary medicines and to reduce the administrative burden in the field concerned, to promote innovation, competitiveness and to ensure the efficient functioning of the veterinary medicines market within the community, and to combat antibiotic resistance. the last point was, incidentally, already discussed during the plenary session on monday. this is a very important document, and that is why i voted in favour.
chairman! the way in which the potential source of funding for the european medicines agency is specified in this document is commendable. i also agree with the rapporteur that the role of the agency in the registration and supervision of veterinary medicinal products should be clearly defined, using a highly centralised procedure. that's very good, that's a big step forward. at present, each member state has its own system and needs a common denominator. i would also like to welcome the changes that have been made, which have reduced the role of the commission to a certain extent. and i would also like to welcome the idea of publishing reports every five years, analysing in detail the experience gained in implementing the provisions of the regulation. i therefore voted in favour.
chairman! by 2020, the total amount of data will reach 16 zettabytes, trillions of gigabytes, so that's a 236 percent increase, which is a big year-on-year increase. other forecasts include 40 and 44 zettabytes. for 40 zettabytes, that's a whopping 5,200 gigabytes of data for every person on the planet. in other words, the potential for economic development is huge and must be exploited. i support this document and, from the perspective of consumers, businesses, the education system and other areas, there is a clear need for further, i would say, efforts to inform and disseminate the information to the public, which is a must for the european union, for the european commission, and the same applies to innovation and investment not only at the transnational level of the european union but also at all other levels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on moving towards a data-driven, emerging economy. this resolution goes hand in hand with the eu's drive towards a digital single market, which is being implemented to unlock wider opportunities for economic development. the data-driven economy, or digital economy, in which information technologies are widely used in all social, economic, cultural and educational fields, offers enormous development opportunities. however, investments in research, infrastructure and development are needed to exploit these opportunities and this resolution accordingly stresses the need for the eu to develop a single, modern and future-proof legal framework that stimulates and encourages investment in both network infrastructure and research. i believe that the data-driven economy, using information technology, has enormous potential to drive economic growth in the european union.
chairman! eritrea today has a very bad situation with respect to human rights, with freedom of speech and press, with access to basic resources. in fact, there is no independent judicial system, it simply does not work, let alone a mandatory military service for all eritreans between the ages of 18 and 50. the conditions in the service are the most severe, and there is a huge annual influx of refugees, including to the european union. those who call eritrea the north korea of africa, to some extent, are right, for it speaks volumes. but it is a pity that the european union still has no real leverage to influence the situation in eritrea, no instruments to influence asmara's actions, and it is also a pity that the current eritrean regime does not care what we say here, and at the same time it has bad relations with its neighbours, near and far. but there is hope that the resolution will help to improve the situation.
chairman! the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is in a similarly difficult position to bosnia and herzegovina and turkey as candidate countries in the accession process. the name dispute with greece, the strained relations with bulgaria - and not just these two factors - play a principled complicating role in the negotiations with macedonia and the european union. in the light of the council's position, it was not even initiated for the time being, but one of the most fundamental problems is the political instability in macedonia: internal instability, widespread corruption, negative aspects of the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. and until reforms are gradually implemented in this country, unfortunately, we do not see a sufficiently clear change in practice. but overall, of course, i voted for this resolution, perhaps it will bring macedonia alongside the european union.
chairman! despite internal political problems between the opposition forces in montenegro, which began its accession negotiations with the european union four years ago, it is currently one of the most successful countries. the very fact that the national currency of a country is the euro greatly enhances the effectiveness of the implementation of the necessary reforms. it is clear that in recent years there have also been positive results in strengthening the legal framework, which is gradually being implemented in practice with increasing quality. and the situation with judicial independence is certainly not improving as fast as we might like, but it's also going in the right direction. and finally, i joined the positive assessment of the reform of the montenegrin education system, especially in the preschool and primary school. this reform is going well. and overall, i also found this report very positive.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. as is known, in 2012, a new union-wide banking policy was launched in response to the eurozone crisis, which resulted in the transfer of responsibility for the control of this sector from the member state level to the transnational level. this is very good, and this is the vector we need to keep going. i joined the call for the speedy implementation of structural reforms in the banking system that would minimise, at least in part, the likelihood of recurrence of crises and the effectiveness of their management. incidentally, the same applies to the supervisory system, firstly, in the case of large banks. but overall investors and bank customers will benefit, because one of the most important points of appreciation is the call to guarantee the maximum possible security of deposits - both in principle and in the case of compensation - irrespective of the geographical location of the member states, and i therefore support this document.
the president, the commissioner! the reasons for the fall in pigmeat prices are more than clear - it is the sanctions war with russia, which several of my colleagues have already mentioned here, but as we know, before the sanctions war started, trade between the european union and russia amounted to more than one billion euros a day. at the moment, latvian farmers are suffering very big losses, and in fact it happens that the agricultural sector is the most regulated in the european union, but what can we do with our own regulations? they're powerless. so we have to open the russian market back to eastern europe, to my country, latvia, because russia is a traditional market for the european union. it is welcome that the sanctions against belarus have been lifted and that european pig producers may be able to enter the belarusian market, but it is important to know that this will not happen tomorrow or the next day. it takes time. in conclusion, i would like to say that latvian pork was once very famous throughout europe. soon, if we do not take urgent action, the latvian pig will be a memory.
madam president, every state has the right to defend its inhabitants, independence, territorial integrity and interests by whatever means deemed necessary, without, however, breaking the law or violating the inherent rights of its own people. of these rights, freedom of speech and self-expression rank among the most important. two years ago, the latvian maxim koptelov published a survey on the possibility of latvia joining the russian federation. he himself described the whole idea as a joke. nonetheless, in february of this year he was sentenced to six months in prison. interestingly, the authorities had ignored similar surveys on the subject of latvia joining the united states of america. what is more, a month ago the latvian parliament introduced an amendment to its criminal law, according to which essentially any statement, even a joke, deemed to have improper content could now lead to actual imprisonment. my home country has disgraced itself in a shameful manner.
mr president, firstly i wish to thank rapporteur metsola for doing this very difficult job. one of the best examples of a holistic approach in our history and literature is sherlock holmes. here is an example to take when looking at the migration crisis. applying the method of deduction to the migration crisis shows the weaknesses of our current system and politics, which arose as a result of delaying foreign and security policy. it also shows the current weaknesses in our value system, our border-security system and in internal cooperation between different institutions, as well as weaknesses in the institutions themselves. if we really want to regain the trust of our citizens, we must be successful in solving the migration crisis, and to do this we have to proceed step by step. this step-by-step approach entails, for example, trying to fix these problems one after another. i see the upcoming file at parliament on our border agency and more secure european external borders as a contribution to this holistic approach. this is because we cannot survive with our current values and schengen system of open internal borders without fixing our external borders. let us do it step by step and we will also succeed with the migration crisis. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i have no reason to believe that the commission is not, just like ourselves, doing its job to the best of its capability. we must understand that none of us is a god here. the commission, the european parliament, the council and the world in general have restricted capabilities, so the only way we can proceed is not just to paint ideals on the wall and think about a wished-for world in the future, but to fix every issue step by step. that is the only practical solution in politics that i can suggest to you.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote was to support the commission's proposal for the codification and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007. this regulation governs the import of certain products originating in the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and applies to those goods produced in the least developed acp states, by ensuring consistent duty-free and quota-free access to the european union market. the scheme currently covers 27 acp countries. in other words, the idea is to continue to support developing countries by this kind of indirect economic assistance, giving them the opportunity to export their production to the union. as this scheme does not really harm the interests of local producers and consumers, and at the same time contributes to the eu's growing role on the world economic and political stage, it was logical to support it.
in writing. ‒ like iceland or the faroe islands, greenland's primary economic sector and export commodity is fisheries and fish respectively, accounting for around 90% of all exported goods, of which around 90% goes to denmark. in recent years, the union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries. the eu provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights in the exclusive economic zone of the partner countries. as greenland is contractually part of the kingdom of denmark and the fisheries in its territorial waters are managed by nuuk and outside of them by copenhagen, it was necessary to conclude a contract with both parties. the original fisheries agreement was signed in 1985, extended several times and finally replaced by the fisheries partnership agreement. the aim of this protocol is thus to strengthen existing cooperation, since it is the third most important eu agreement in terms of economic value in terms of its scope. given the mutual benefits to the parties involved, it was, of course, logical to vote for the agreement. it is important to note, however, that in the future the agreement should pay greater attention to the sustainability of fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the commission has been negotiating with the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china for some time now an agreement to replace certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and this territorial component of the prc, which has autonomy in several areas, including air transport policy. the main idea of the new agreement is to legally replace any currently active bilateral air transport agreements concluded between certain eu member states and macao. this is done in order to completely eliminate contractually any possibility of discrimination against airlines operating in the eu territory or owned by nationals of its member states. the primary aspects of the agreement are safety, taxation, compliance with the competition rules, and the carrier selection clause.
in writing. ‒ when it became clear that the introduction of the single market would not make it possible to implement the commission's proposals for the establishment of a definitive system of tax harmonisation, directive 92/77/ec was introduced, according to which the basic vat rate in all member states could not be set below a level of 15%. the provisions of the directive have been extended five times, the last of which until 31 december 2015, which means that it is time to do so again this time until the end of 2018. given that the vat rate in all eu member states is above 15%, no distortion of national tax policy will occur in this respect. the existing system will therefore continue to operate until the day when a single tax policy for all eu member states could possibly be implemented. it is also worth noting that the commission initially proposed to extend the validity of the existing rules until the end of 2017, but this proposal was later changed to the above mentioned date.
in writing. ‒ as has happened several times in recent months, a vote was held today on the conclusion of a europol strategic cooperation agreement with a third country, this time with the federative republic of brazil. the fact that the summer olympic games will soon be held in brazil is particularly important, as it always intensifies the various types of criminal activity. outside these, it will be possible to contribute to a more active and effective fight against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cyber-related activities. counter-terrorism activities also play an important role in cooperation with brazil. given that this agreement will help to combat organised crime more effectively and will significantly strengthen cooperation between international law enforcement agencies, it is hard to think of any reason why the council's proposal for an agreement should not be supported.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european parliament as a branch of the road police and csdd authorities of the member states has been considerably strengthened in recent months, which is of course very welcome. if previous votes on the waiver of immunity for speeding were to be held, this time it was on the preliminary investigation into a traffic accident involving german mep herman winkler. since this case is in no way connected with mr winkler's work in the european parliament and since all members must be clear that there must be no problem with national or international courts, it was logical to vote for the waiver of the member's immunity in order to allow the german court to examine the case in its entirety and reach a final conclusion, which in turn would determine mr winkler's role and, consequently, the possible consequences of this traffic accident.
chairman! the un plans to develop an international legally binding instrument by the end of 2017 to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity beyond the territorial jurisdiction of states. this already means a modern concept of sustainability, the development of marine ecosystem management and so on. i think this is extremely important because animal selection... i apologize for that. i join the call on the commission to cooperate as actively as possible with all the other parties involved in the development of the new regulations and, in principle, to regularly bring to the attention of both its own and other partners the issues of the sustainable use of marine resources. i voted in favour of course, because it is clear that the european union's involvement in this matter cannot be limited to the common fisheries policy, just as unilateral action on the part of the eca will never produce effective results. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to combine several directives on zootechnical regulations for different species into a single single legal act, thus contributing to the creation of a single market in this field. this would facilitate the free movement of breeding animals and their genetic material within the territory of the member states. the same applies to more efficient import and export procedures. the system of animal breeding directly affects not only the agricultural sector but also consumer rights, economic development, health and much more, so it is perfectly understandable why so many amendments had to be tabled there simply cannot be any misunderstanding here. this is not to mention the need to maximise the synchronisation of the characteristics and historical specificities of the systems existing in the member states. the proposal also focuses on the protection of the rights and interests of breeding societies, rules on the registration of work results, cross-border cooperation and, of course, the protection of rare, endangered and also 'indigenous' species. overall, given the importance of the proposal, it was necessary to support it. it is hoped that in the future, adapting its performance to the realities of my country latvia will bring maximum benefits to our farmers and consumers.
chairman! it is clear that the events of the past year have shown that the current european union policy on migration is not working. it may be effective enough for small numbers of migrants, but it simply cannot function effectively or cope with such large numbers. it is clear that different countries have different attitudes to the current situation, especially after the events in paris and brussels, and therefore coordination between national, transnational, regional and municipal levels of government is vital. clearly, the principle of solidarity is of paramount importance, which is why i support this document and the reporters who worked so hard on it. but we must say that we do not yet have the ideal system, and we - the european parliament and the commission - and the european union as a whole have a long way to go to put in place an effective system to deal with the migrant crisis. but i will vote in favour again. thank you.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently experiencing the largest influx of refugees since the second world war. war in the middle east and poverty in africa have driven thousands of people to seek refuge and a better life in europe. we cannot turn our backs on people fleeing war, but we must not accept those who want to reach europe in search of a better life. first, we must secure the external borders and allow them to return safely to third countries. no uncontrolled movement of people is allowed. unfortunately, i do not think that the european parliament's resolution emphasises enough the need to regulate the external borders. i do not think it is fair to propose that refugees be distributed among the member states in a forced way. such a mechanism has already shown itself to be unable to function. the proposal to create a european union refugee assessment office to determine which refugees and how many to accept, thus imposing criteria on member states, is also not to be supported. member states should have the right to determine this themselves. given that the resolution does not offer a solution to the situation but only complicates it, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ there is no simple solution to the current migration crisis in europe. i very much respect the difficult work done by the co-rapporteurs, however, this report includes too many elements which are not acceptable to my country; it mixes asylum, labour market needs, demography and stateless persons. while coordinated approach is needed, and latvia takes part in relocations from italy and greece; solidarity cannot be enforced. a permanent, mandatory resettlement programme for all eu ms on the basis of criteria such as the size of the country and the population density are unfair conditions. we need to finally implement existing rules, including the dublin regulation, instead of writing new. asylum decisions are a national competence and i cannot support idea that people would apply to asylum in the eu and brussels would decide to which ms and how many applicants are sent. labour migration is a national competence; it is not brussels which can determine the labour market needs of eu ms. furthermore, the request to ms to reduce the number of stateless persons is unacceptable given that it goes beyond the scope of this report. therefore i could not support the report on a holistic eu approach to migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the need for a holistic eu approach to migration, as it stresses that a centralised asylum system will effectively address the influx of migrants and asylum seekers. populism though it has been in its various forms is proving stronger in the european parliament, at least for the time being. it is also being carried out by the left-wing and centrist colleagues of the parliament, most of whom do not want to gain political power in the member states. for example, the eu council's position on this issue is different, and there is a shift towards a sensible and realistic decision-making process. it must be understood that the compulsory voluntary quotas, this time wrapped in a cloak of solidarity, do not work because, in the end, this is not in the interests of most member states, nor of the migrants themselves, who, on the basis of the proposed plan, want to be sent to different member states with different standards of living and social guarantees. moreover, it does not solve the secondary movement problem, but on the contrary, the fact that the vast majority of migrants and asylum seekers are forcibly in countries they would rather not be in poses serious risks to the existence of the schengen area. the basic principle of the dublin regulation must remain in place. it is also necessary to ensure that any migrant who has paid smugglers is sent back; and that only genuine refugees from the threat of war obtain their refugee status in third country camps where they apply to a member state for a review of their status.
chairman! on the one hand, it is welcome that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality were effectively applied in practice in the european union's governance in 2012 and 2013. and i therefore join the call for the national parliaments in the european union to be more actively involved in these processes, both in general and in the light of developments in general. but the same is true of regional and municipal authorities, since they are the main institutions implementing the principle of subsidiarity and, i would say, the de facto closest authorities to the citizens of the european union. but it is unfortunate that in recent years the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity has suffered more and more, i would say, has also withered and is not fully implemented in our lives. but i agree with the need to simplify the procedure for requesting eu funding as much as possible and i repeat that i voted in favour.
chairman! the compliance and enforcement programme is arguably one of the most logical innovations ever implemented in the european union, but of course its main objective is to simplify legislation, reduce regulatory costs and so on. but when our citizens sometimes ask us, the mps, and in general... when asked why they are against or partially sceptical of the european union, the clear answer is that bureaucracy and over-bureaucratisation are the reason why eu citizens sometimes lack confidence in the european union and its institutions. because maximum transparency, stakeholder consultation and dialogue with citizens and social partners in general - this is the number one task we need to do, and it doesn't take as much time and effort to make it happen. but overall, i support this document. i think that makes a lot of sense. thank you.
chairman! the single market is to a large extent the cornerstone of the european union. we should therefore all strive to maximise the principles on which the relevant regulations operate. today we have already discussed the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and it is clear that they are also of paramount importance in the case of the single market, since its functioning depends on virtually all the administrative mechanisms of the european union. it must be said that while several administrative bodies are involved in the legal mechanisms for the functioning of the single market, its main, i would say, participants are nevertheless a number of undertakings located in the territory of the european union. we must therefore always seek to maintain and intensify the dialogue with them so that they can make the most of the benefits of the single market. and in parallel, of course, to improve the contacts between decision-makers and entrepreneurs, i would agree that we need to increase the efficiency of conflict resolution methods. thank you.
chairman! two years ago, 52% of europeans felt that their voice was not heard here in parliament at all, and 44% simply did not understand how it all worked. as a result, the participation rate in european elections is well known and is decreasing and this needs to be changed. i am therefore very pleased that we voted today for this report, which is also intended to focus on the effective information of our citizens. the information starts, of course, at school, because the future electors to the european parliament and the future of the european union are sitting on the school's doorstep. and it is also very good that we can use all these men for this growth potential, and for example good mechanisms like 'erasmus+' and 'creative europe' are just one of the proofs that this process has a future.
chairman! erasmus+ is a great opportunity not only to study or work abroad, but also to qualify such periods as full-time work, which will then be taken into account throughout the european union and in each member state. in other words, there must be a clearly defined link between education, access to education and employment opportunities, which is as widely disseminated as possible throughout the eu. but there is one "but". i'm not voting for the guy. i held back for one reason, because unfortunately the majority in the european parliament did not support an amendment that would allow erasmus+ documents to be available in all the languages in which education is provided in schools in the european union. for example, in my country, latvia, there are not only schools with latvian language instruction, in which i am speaking now, but also schools traditionally in belarusian, ukrainian, russian, hebrew. what if we sent these documents to young people in their native languages? i'm afraid that doesn't make sense to me. thank you.
chairman! despite all the factors, the fact that other world markets and competitors are developing rapidly, the european union is a very strong player on a global scale. this, of course, means that our participation in a number of international organizations plays a huge role. i agree that we need to define clearly the role of each international and regional institution, the dialogues, the specifics of the dialogues, the regulation and so on, and it is clear that while the european union is represented as a single participant in many cases, there is still a lot of disagreement about the specific steps. we'd have to keep moving. it is clear that we must consolidate our positions, because at the end of the day the european union is defending the common interests of all the member states, including at international level. thank you.
chairman! coastal fishing vessels account for about 80% of the total fleet of the member states of the european union. in many regions, fishing is the primary form of employment, both de facto and historically. it thus constitutes the largest sphere in terms of the jobs it occupies. in other words, effective regulation and - and this is crucial - quality support for those working in this field must be at the forefront of both member state and union policies. unlike industrial fishing, small-scale coastal fishing is precisely that type of small-scale fishing and is often carried out by small companies or even on an individual basis. this should always be taken into account when we develop policy in this area. but i voted for it. thank you.
chairman! the european union is the world's largest market for fishery products, consuming only 11% of the world's catches, while importing 24% of the value of the catch. the latter can also be attributed to the fact that the european union and its companies are important processors of marine resources. the fisheries agreement with greenland has already been voted on today, but it is only one of a number of agreements of this type, both bilateral and multilateral. we must therefore continue our efforts to maximise the systematization of fisheries at international level, particularly in terms of sustainability and, i would say, also in terms of the protection of ecosystems. it is to be hoped that active cooperation with partners in other countries, especially regional fisheries management organisations, and more active scientific work will sooner or later bear fruit. this is therefore commendable.
mr president, i welcome the recent steps towards a closer eu—nato cooperation, such as the practical cooperation between frontex and nato in the aegean sea and the closer cooperation with nato on countering hybrid threats as envisaged in the newly-adopted ‘joint framework to counter hybrid threats and foster the resilience of the eu’. i encourage you, madam vice-president, to work towards the implementation of this document, both in the area of closer cooperation with nato and the other 21 action items. we are looking forward to adopting the necessary legislative and political measures for their implementation.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on 22 march, the parliament's foreign affairs committee began with a moment of silence to honour the victims of the terrorist attack at zaventem airport. when the foreign affairs committee was preparing to vote on my report on the strategy for a european foreign and security policy, we learned that there had just been an explosion in the parliament building at the nearest metro station. it was a strange, surreal feeling. we voted on the strategic objectives of european foreign policy, but people were dying a few hundred metres away - partly because of europe's failure to achieve the objectives set out in other strategic documents many years ago. looking at the european security strategy adopted in 2003, we see that one of the three main strategic objectives is the stabilisation of europe's neighbourhoods, including the middle east. today, 13 years later, we must recognize that this strategic objective has not been achieved and that the situation in the neighbouring regions has become one of the main causes of the major security problem at the heart of europe. i would not want our descendants to see in five or ten years' time the good papers, the weak works. the reason for this is that our union suffers from a chronic lack of political will, which affects the implementation of many european policies. therefore, one of the key recommendations in the resolution on the eu global strategy is to monitor its implementation, to regularly assess and update it, and to link objectives to resources. the european parliament, through this resolution, wishes to contribute to the formation and concentration of the political will of the institutions and the member states. e resolution calls for a substantial strengthening of europe's common defence capability and for the creation of a european defence union in the foreseeable future. we call for the european union's external action efforts to focus directly on stabilising europe's wider neighbourhood, rather than trying to be all things to all people. we call for europe to be a world-class player with a regional focus, active in shaping global rules rather than filling them we stress that this is only possible in cooperation with the union's main strategic partners. at the same time, we must recognize that america's interests are increasingly in asia and that we ourselves will have to be able, not just in words but in deeds, to ensure the security of europe and of europeans. we therefore call on member states to increase their defence spending to at least 2% of their gdp by 2024, while spending these funds more wisely by linking our military industries and capabilities and achieving a higher return on investment by 2025. what do i think are the main challenges in implementing the strategy? the first is political will and a sense of common purpose between member states and their societies. the second is the growing populism of the a. they pose unforeseen challenges and consequences for the union and its foreign policy, such as the dutch referendum, brexit, the us presidential election, etc. and who knows what else we'll have. the commission has also proposed that the the citizens often expect simple and quick solutions the eu is also a major contributor to the development of the euro area. it is difficult to explain that for every euro we do not effectively invest in our external action, we may have to pay many times over by addressing the internal problems caused by external circumstances. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. the european parliament and our colleague, mr barroso, are the ones who can help us to explain this. we therefore call on you, the high representative, to report regularly to parliament on the implementation of the strategy and we believe that the global strategy should be reviewed every five years. thank you for the i got it!
rapporteur.– mr president, i thank you all very much for all the pertinent remarks you have made. i will just repeat the key words of the work we are doing together. first of all, it is important to have the political will to build the resilience of europe and europeans. there is a need for a coherent internal and external policy, and what is most important is that we implement the strategic documents. to do that, we need resources for external policy. i fully agree that we have to keep our engagement and continue with enlargement and our promises. there is the importance of strategic autonomy and the strengthening of our defence capacity. we have to cooperate with nato and we have to think about building a european intelligence agency. human security is at the centre of our strategy. because of that we need to better control arms. we have to be more skilful in conflict resolution and invest more in development, because we want to be a global player with a regional focus in this connected, contested and complex world.
mr president, central asia has an important role and potential in regional and global security, transit and trade, energy and communications. our goal should be to act as an impartial mediator in the resolution of the existing conflicts, primarily related to water supply and ethnic divisions. the same applies to development assistance provision, especially in education and the environment. tailor-made country action plans, together with the long—term experience of our eastern european member states, should indeed help on this path. my sincere advice to our leadership is to take into account and respect the centuries-old traditions and customs of societal and governance conduct in these countries. only by accepting these differences and effectively adapting any of our reform suggestions to the very local specificities will the eu be able to have a strong voice in the region. i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work.
madam president, i am in favour of a constructive relationship with turkey, but the current one clearly resembles bullying and extortion on the part of turkish president erdoğan, with the threat of overloading europe with refugees in the event of non-compliance. the same applies to threats of sabotaging the whole migration deal should turkey not get visa-free travel. i wholeheartedly acknowledge the fact that turkey currently houses and provides for more than 2.5 million refugees and may require assistance. however, the current actions of the turkish leadership, in relations with the eu and a majority of its members, cannot go unnoticed. in particular, there are serious indications that turkey played a major role in enabling jihadist groups, such as daesh and the al-nusra front in syria. this support has contributed to the current refugee crisis. that being said, i urge european leaders to promote the interests of european states and europeans by keeping true to our values.
in writing. ‒ almost two months ago, the european commission decided to support the redundancies of five companies in sweden, which were involved in the production of cars, trucks and semi-trailers. as part of this adequacy, sweden will receive a total of eur 1 793 710 for the retraining of 500 former workers, various forms of support and gradual reintegration into the labour market. one of the main reasons why this aid became necessary was that in recent years the european commercial vehicle industry, especially the trucks, has been affected by similar trends in the development of companies in asia, with which it is rather difficult to compete due to lower wage costs. i supported the granting of this funding in order to allow the early return of the dismissed workers to the labour market, thus contributing to the further development of the vehicle manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ unlike the majority of the other votes on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, this one concerns the allocation of funds to the european commission itself, and in this case to the relevant institutions, with the aim of financing monitoring and information measures, developing a knowledge base interface and advising the member states of the european union on the use, monitoring and evaluation of egf funding. the total amount of the grant shall be eur 380 000. the request as such follows from the fact that the egf regulation states that each year approximately 0,5% of the annual resources of the fund may be requested for this type of purpose. the ceiling for this year is thus eur 828,060. given that the fund has continued to support thousands of redundant workers every year since its creation, helping them to re-skill and re-enter the labour market, and otherwise consistently supporting the competitiveness of the eu as a whole and its economy and its further development, it was logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ given the developments over the last few years, and especially last year, i fully support the setting up of this new financial instrument, which will be able to provide at least part of the support from the member states affected by the migrant/refugee crisis, first of all greece and italy. i also strongly support increasing funding for the european counter-terrorism centre and europol to enable them to deal more effectively with the logical risks that such a large influx of people of all kinds inevitably brings. while it is understood that the crisis in each country will be addressed through other sources, it is nevertheless conceivable that the allocated funding of eur 300 million in 2016, eur 200 million in 2017 and eur 200 million in 2018 may be insufficient. i therefore very much hope that the commission and the council already have, or are planning, alternative sources of funding and/or additional resources to deal with the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors acts as an independent external auditor, regularly auditing the management of the union budget by the european commission and consistently providing an overall view of the existing financial situation together with recommendations for its improvement. although it has no legal authority, the role of the court of auditors in financial control is undeniable. this means that the 28 members of the european court of auditors - one from each eu member state - are the most qualified financial professionals, with a long record of work in their home country, whose primary task is to oversee the union's finances in a way that safeguards the interests of its citizens, i.e. taxpayers. having considered and analysed mr jereba's candidacy and having regard to his professional experience and a number of other factors, i have voted against. however, he was elected by 404 votes to 222.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors acts as an independent external auditor, regularly auditing the management of the union budget by the european commission and consistently providing an overall view of the existing financial situation together with recommendations for its improvement. although it has no legal authority, the role of the court of auditors in financial control is undeniable. this means that the 28 members of the european court of auditors - one from each eu member state - are the most qualified financial professionals, with a long record of work in their home country, whose primary task is to oversee the union's finances in a way that safeguards the interests of its citizens, i.e. taxpayers. having considered and analysed mr kozlov's candidacy and having regard to his professional experience and a number of other factors, i voted in favour. although the s&d group's official position was to abstain, i was for kozlov. it should be added that mr kozlova has worked for many years in the sphere of financial management at the republic of latvia and also at european level in the ministry of finance of the republic of latvia, the european bank for reconstruction and development and, among others, in the permanent representation of the republic of latvia to the european union. he is not only a high-level professional, but as his work experience shows well-versed in the european financial management system and its control principles. with mr. kozlov's candidacy confirmed, i wish him luck in this not-so-easy job!
in writing. - i voted against gregor according to our group's position. but he was elected with 382 votes in favour, 256 against and 57 abstentions.
in writing. ‒ having considered and analysed mr balko's candidacy and having given the utmost consideration to his professional experience and several other factors, i voted for. he was elected by 328 votes to 317 with 52 abstentions.
in writing. ‒ having considered and analysed mr vojcehovska's candidacy and having given the utmost consideration to his professional experience and several other factors, i voted in favour as did our whole group. however, he was not elected (288 votes in favour, 358 against and 48 abstentions).
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. one of the main problems is that glyphosate is largely non-selective in its action, killing not only unwanted herbs but also all plants, including algae, bacteria, fungi, and this has a very negative impact on biodiversity and ecosystems in the areas where it is applied. i agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission's draft implementing regulation still fails to ensure, to a reasonable extent, the protection of human and animal health and the protection of the environment itself. i also support the need to develop as soon as possible an independent review of the classification of glyphosate, firstly, with regard to its carcinogenicity and endocrine system. in the light of all of the above, i voted unanimously against the renewal of glyphosate and i also joined the call to the commission to publish the data on the basis of which the renewal of the approval of glyphosate has been proposed once again. thank you.
in writing. at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted to raise an objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure to the renewal of the approval of the active substance 'glyphosate'. the european commission's proposal provided for the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate for a further period of 15 years. the european parliament resolution and the objection highlight the potential hazards of glyphosate and its potential negative effects on human health, and therefore object to the authorisation of the use of such a substance for such a long period. the european parliament resolution provides for the authorisation of the substance for a further seven years, but if new studies reveal and can reasonably be shown that the substance concerned no longer meets the approval criteria, the commission may withdraw the approval of the active substance. in addition, member states can decide at national level whether they wish to authorise or prohibit the substance. the resolution also stressed that the harmful substance should only be used at a professional level and called on the commission to recommend that member states restrict or prohibit the sale of glyphosate to non-professional users. in the light of the information available to me, i consider that it is appropriate for health reasons not to authorise the renewal of glyphosate for 15 years, but to authorise it for a much shorter period and with much stricter conditions of use.
in writing. a study by the world health organization suggests that glyphosate may cause cancer. the numbers are dramatic. in the last 40 years, the world's use of this agrochemical has increased 260-fold. glyphosate is one of the most widely used herbicides in europe. the most common is the roundup. farmers are increasingly using roundup to prepare their fields for the next season, to destroy weeds, or to speed up the death of crops. the plants leave circular traces after they are harvested. every day, we eat flour, oatmeal, bread, cakes, and other products that are part of the cycle. a few years ago, a study showed that the urine levels of the latvian population are among the highest in europe. concerns are also growing about the effects of glyphosate on the hormonal and reproductive systems, as well as its effects on pregnancy. glyphosate and its residues have also been found in water, soil, food and beverages and non-food products. this damages the environment and nature, reducing biodiversity on agricultural land and destroying food sources for birds and insects. given that glyphosate not only kills unwanted weeds but also plants, pollutes the environment in which we live and poses a serious threat to human health, i voted against the renewal of the licence for glyphosate. i do not believe that the use of plant protection products that have been identified as potentially carcinogenic by the world's leading health agency should be allowed.
chairman! i take this message with mixed feelings. on the one hand, it is clear that the european union has been a very influential player on the world stage for many years, for decades, especially in the economic field. this also applies to the protection of our values. on the military front, there is, i would say, a fairly specific division of responsibilities between the european union and nato, largely thanks to the 'berlin plus' system, and the member states' potential in this respect is not being used well. on the other hand, the report looks like a ragged dress. in fact, we have to spend 2% of gdp from the national budgets just to spend it. we need to strengthen our relations with the united states, because we are expecting some kind of threat from our eastern neighbours, which our nationalists love to talk about. i therefore voted against this report with the same sentiments, because i think it is simply not as well prepared as we would like it to be. thank you.
mr president, i would like to explain why i abstained in the vote on this resolution. i could not vote against, since i do agree with the main idea of the report that the eu needs a coherent and consistent approach towards the central asia region in order to avoid any overlapping or sending out mixed and confusing signals. but i could not vote in favour either, for the reason that the report is, to my regret, coherent and consistent in adopting the western tradition of trying to teach the whole world how it should live, disregarding objective distinctions between nations and cultures and without showing sufficient respect for the partners. in my capacity as vice-chair of the central asia partnership and cooperation committee, i prefer to depart from this tradition and opt for mutually-respectful intercultural dialogue.
chairman! although central asia is geographically close to europe, for example compared to south america, it has unfortunately not received enough attention from the european union over the past few decades. it can only be said that, given the latvia aspect of my country and the latvian presidency, thanks to the european council, the european union's policy in the region has been revived a little. it is a fact that these regions are historically, economically and politically mostly influenced by moscow or beijing. but that doesn't mean we can't bring our own art. all the countries of this region have deeply rooted state principles of development of public administration, the origins of which, among other things, go back centuries much earlier than the very presence of central asia in the soviet union. i support the report as a whole, but i would like to add that there is still a lot to be done in this region. thank you.
chairman! clearly, evolution is not something that is unique to humans. the same viruses in your mouth have been around for decades and are becoming more dangerous, more deadly. zika virus is one of the latest examples, and the principal difference is its devastating effect on unborn children, as it causes microcephaly. in adults, it leads to guillain-barre syndrome. this is very important. the virus has been detected in 28 countries, including spain. and the fact is, if it originally -- in the mid-20th century -- it was affecting equatorial areas in asia and africa, then it was actually moving across oceania and south america three years ago. in view of all this, i wholeheartedly support the commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million to zika virus research and i urge all the specialised bodies to take up this matter, especially as it is of great relevance, especially ahead of the summer olympic games in brazil.
chairman! of course, any government that has come to power through democratic elections has the power to implement reforms, especially if those reforms are demanded by society, if they are the political platforms of the parties, the wishes of the voters. this is exactly what is happening in poland. but on the other hand, any government has to follow the principles of faith, any government of any country has international treaties, and it is accountable to international treaties. unfortunately, at the moment there are huge problems - a case with the judiciary, with the independence of the media, with such essential issues that are the cornerstone of the values of our european union. that is why i abstained in voting on this resolution and i believe that in some way both sides - the polish government and the institutions of the european union - are playing on each other's nerves, as if to test which of them will be the first to lose their nerve. i repeat, i have voted to abstain. thank you.
chairman! the security of personal data has long been a matter of concern for the european parliament, and it is true that millions of people every minute, every second, buy goods online, register for events, submit documents electronically, and so on. and the fundamental problem is that given these constant developments in the market and the legal framework, there is absolutely no guarantee that this data will not be available to third parties and third parties. how often have we all received a phone call from a complete stranger who stood in front of us and already knew our name, first name, telephone number, and so forth? why would these people have access to our data in the first place? so, when we give permission to an authority to process our data in a very specific way, that's when that data is legal. i therefore voted with great pleasure in favour of this legislative resolution. thank you.
chairman! theft of credit card data, illegal acquisition of goods, even taking out credit, taking out mortgage credit - also in my country latvia, unfortunately, it is everyday and fraudulent activity is unfortunately green. i think this recommendation for second reading is extremely important and, as rapporteur marie lauristin said, it strikes a very good balance between citizens' security and privacy. i therefore voted in favour of the idea that we need to develop this framework to protect citizens from the theft of their private data, and certainly also a minimum legal level of protection of personal data for the purpose of preventing crime, which is the european union's next mandatory objective. and i repeat, the vote was "yes". thank you.
chairman! security or freedom? these two numbers are what make up one of the most fundamental equations in the governance of nations. which is more important? who should take precedence? the point is, both are vitally important. in the case of the european union, for decades we have lived as if in one of those innumerable 'safeties' that seem self-evident, permanent, but unfortunately are not. and recent events in paris and brussels and other european cities prove that we need to think about security, to compromise, to balance security and freedom to the maximum, ignoring neither. i support this document by voting today because the passenger data register presents the same dilemma, but it seems that, in the light of all that has happened recently, such a register is needed by the european union precisely to improve the safety of our citizens. the most important thing in this regard is, of course, to guarantee the fundamental freedoms of our citizens. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i support the new directive which will regulate the use of passenger name record (pdr) data for the eu's prevention, detection, investigation and investigation of terrorism and other serious crimes. the new rules will require airlines to transfer passenger data to member state authorities for all flights between the eu and third countries. by collecting passenger data, sharing it, and analyzing it, our intelligence agencies will be able to detect suspicious patterns of behavior. pdr is not a panacea, but member states with national pdr systems have repeatedly demonstrated its effectiveness. the directive also provides data protection safeguards and is proportionate to the risk to which we are currently exposed. the aim is to harmonise the rules of the eu member states on the collection and processing of pdr data.
in writing. at the european parliament plenary i voted for a directive which provides for the establishment of a passenger data register at european union level. i believe that this decision, which has been delayed in an excessive and unjustified manner, is very welcome and provides a powerful weapon for european law enforcement and other security authorities in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. law enforcement authorities will now have access to information on people arriving in the european union from third countries. the text of the directive clearly states that the information contained in the register may only be used for the purpose of combating crime and terrorism, thus also respecting the principles of data protection for citizens and preserving the right to privacy. the exchange of information will facilitate the tracing and detection of individuals who are not yet in the sights of law enforcement and other security authorities as potential terrorists or criminals. the shortcoming is that the directive does not cover intra-eu flights, but this information will be exchanged between services on a voluntary basis.
in writing. people still remember the recent terrorist attacks in brussels and paris, which took the lives of innocent people. it is therefore clear that more must be done to protect citizens across europe. the passenger data register (pdr) is an important step to ensure safety. the register will collect information on people entering or leaving europe, thus allowing the identification of persons previously detained on suspicion of involvement in terrorism or serious crime, as well as those who need to be further screened before they are allowed to leave or enter the country. the urgent need for a unified passenger data system in the eu is demonstrated by the inefficient exchange of information between eu countries, which has resulted in a significant delay in the search for suspects. the absurdity is that before the brussels terrorist acts, there were reports from foreign security services about suspicious people entering europe, yet the security services of the eu countries concerned failed to use this information properly, resulting in loss of life. it is regrettable that the establishment of the pdr system has been delayed for years by left-wing forces, who have been concerned about the protection of personal data. in fact, it is clear that honest people have nothing to hide, and if the pdr system is used to expose planned terrorist attacks, it will be a benefit to public security. in addition, the system provides for the careful storage of data, making them available only to law enforcement authorities.
chairman! i mean, trade secrets are actually the cornerstone of any company's functioning and productive operation. this can also apply to certain inventions, to non-public financial data that does not need to be declared in any format, and much more. it should be noted that, as with individuals, companies have an inalienable right to privacy and, in the context of this report, to the security of their business secrets. i agree that the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure cannot extend to matters such as freedom and pluralism of the media, the autonomy of the social partners, as well as to information, knowledge, experience, skills everything, everything, everything that employees have acquired in previous jobs. the same applies, for example, to independent similar discovery outside the company concerned. but overall i regard this document positively and of course i voted for it. thank you.
chairman! as with any institution dealing with a wide range of issues, parliament certainly needs financial resources, but it should be noted that the current estimate includes a possible increase in the budget for the coming year to eur 1 900 873 000, an increase of 3.4%. it is clear that we members must think about the economical use of resources. i therefore supported the amendments which provided that members are not obliged to fly business class within the european union, that members can in principle also pay for parking in parliament. i am deeply, deeply sympathetic to all these ideas. i hope that my colleagues and parliament as a whole will be very careful and economical with these funds, and i will say in general that i support, of course, this indrek tarand report. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i am sorry to note that the level of democratic development in turkey has declined considerably in recent years. the numerous reforms and various other innovations, the repression of the mass media, minorities and the army, as well as the serious political polarization do not do any good either in fact or in perspective. there is also no substantial progress in the negotiations with the european union. and perhaps most importantly, when it comes to turkey's foreign affairs, apart from the positive relationship with azerbaijan and northern cyprus, in fact in all other cases they range from neutral to negative, which also applies to the region as a whole. more than that in the case of syria and iraq, ankara has no interest in the sovereignty of these countries' borders. in parallel, there are serious concerns that turkish intelligence services are cooperating with the islamic state in its own illicit oil trade and are contributing to the emergence of a migrant and refugee crisis in europe. while i strongly support the development of productive and constructive relations with turkey, any negotiations with it must always be based on internal and external developments. otherwise, normal dialogue and results will not be achieved. i voted against the whole thing.
in writing. ‒ i am very proud that in the last couple of years albania has been able to make such progress in its negotiations with the european union. it is expected to continue to implement all the necessary and planned reforms, in particular in the areas of judicial independence, the fight against corruption and organised crime, in order to maximise the improvement of its governance model. the same applies to reforms in the education system, the economy and the social sphere. the main idea here seems to be to improve the quality of life of its own citizens, rather than integration into the european union as such, since the latter is largely a logical consequence of the former. by focusing on the wider context, i very much hope that in the future - and the sooner the better - albanians will be able to develop, on the basis of mutual understanding, as productive and as favourable a relationship as possible with their neighbours, especially the serbs, who are currently the main concerns, for example in view of the same recent incident during the uefa euro 2016 qualifying match.
in writing. ‒ with the first positive report from the european commission on bosnia and herzegovina and its recent formal submission of its adequacy to join the european union, i would like to congratulate sarajevo on the progress made. the fact that the often huge problems of ethnic and religious affiliation, the fragmentation of the axis administrative system, widespread corruption, the lack of independence of the judiciary, and the role of the state itself as a completely negative indirect source of illicit arms proliferation in europe remain. although there is still a long way to go and several reforms to be undertaken, i am pleased to see that the problems of the past are gradually - and often with outside help - disappearing, while the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina periodically make efforts to level their differences and come together for a bright future. and the only people who can really determine that level of brightness are the people of bosnia and herzegovina themselves, no one else. in addition, i would like to note that, as in the case of albania, which i have already discussed today, it is imperative that bosnia and herzegovina continue to improve its relations with its neighbours, first and foremost with serbia. the road to the european union is not possible without a qualitative and long-term regional reconciliation. it is time to put an end to the balkanization process!
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the most developed and richest places in the world, but unfortunately not everywhere people have the opportunity to live a decent life, according to their skills and aspirations. in 2013, 122,6 million people, or 16,7% of the eu population, were at risk of poverty. in 2008, there were 117 million. given the trends of the last few years, i don't think the statistics could have been any more positive. although the europe 2020 strategy sets a target of reducing such numbers by 20 million by the end of the decade, this should not be the main objective, as the necessary efforts must be implemented on the basis of the facts, the strategy merely provides a guide. i unambiguously join the call on the commission, and in particular on the member states themselves, to do everything possible and within their power to combat poverty and social exclusion in europe as effectively as possible. in our existing social systems, which are far from being de facto liberal and government-free, the states are responsible in one way or another for social policy, health care and support for the poor. access to clean water, winter heating resources and - as a matter of principle - support for our elderly, at least through fair pensions, must be at the heart of social policy in any member state. in some countries, however, it is the pensioners who are in the worst financial position compared with the rest of society. it's impossible to effectively build the future without thinking about those who helped build the present.
in writing. ‒ as the private sector in developing countries accounts for around 84% of gdp, any eu support to such regions, along with addressing other issues, should be focused on this area, which usually - but not always - also employs the majority of all local workers. smes (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises) in developing countries are often the cornerstone of national economies and societies, providing opportunities to provide for one's family and to strengthen social ties, thus promoting social integration. the eu could thus clearly share experience that has already proven positive in a number of cases around the world, in the areas of access to finance (for example, microcredit, which has proven to be excellent in several countries, notably bangladesh), employment and, consequently, social policy reform, and the modernisation of banking and tax policies. i agree that it is also of fundamental importance to promote positive and productive private-public cooperation. it will also gradually guarantee effective change in education, health, agriculture and innovation, where real progress is not possible without such symbiotic relationships. it is of course very important to always take account of local specificities, which, if used as a kind of basis, could also contribute to qualitative development.
chairman! my fellow citizens! what are we talking about here? what we're talking about here is that the migration crisis has a big impact on transportation. but the migration crisis will have a profound impact on all areas and, most importantly, on the european project as a whole. if we analyse the reasons why such a huge migration crisis has come to our common european home, the answer is one of the huge mistakes in foreign policy that we - in my view - have made in the european union as a whole and in the decisions taken in each member state for several years. migrants come from countries to which we europeans, to be honest, have brought war. from the regions where we, our colleagues, and our arms companies sell weapons. migrants don't come from nowhere, they ask for help from us, from the european union - that's the most important thing. thank you.
mr president, those of us who have, for example, watched star trek or read isaac asimov’s sally will know about the concept of autonomous driving, and even flying. the current level of technological development allows for a limited vehicle autonomy, which is bound to increase over time. one of the main issues is obviously safety. the electronic and other systems involved have to be highly advanced and cover a massive number of behavioural and traffic probabilities. therefore, testing and inspection procedures which are quite different from those for ordinary vehicles are of utmost importance. another principal issue is security. you would not want to be kidnapped while still in your own car when it suddenly rushes off course. as a result, i fully support the idea that the commission, alongside national governments, should soon start drawing up a respective strategy for this area of transportation. having said that, we should never forget about skynet/terminator, with virtual intelligence turning into artificial intelligence and robots some day receiving rights of their own in a few decades, and that soon we might have to deal with the question of how much control we ourselves have over our own lives.
mr president, the process of european integration and institution-building has always been based on the ideals of participatory democracy and transparency – at least in principle. it is therefore most unbecoming for a number of eu institutions, including parliament, that maximum public access for all unclassified documents, even nowadays, is not fully guaranteed. in the light of this, i support the idea of incorporating the european council, the european central bank, the court of justice, and all other eu bodies and agencies within the scope of the regulation being discussed. transparency for documentation related to delegated texts and negotiations on international agreements is of particular importance. the most basic reasoning for such change is quite simple. those who, through their taxes, supply the bulk of the eu’s budget deserve to know what is actually happening behind the walls of each institution. moreover, a higher level of transparency would directly and positively affect public interest in the union itself.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to thank minister hennis-plasschaert, a former colleague, and commissioner jourová for their statements. i hope the council and commission will take on board our resolution, which was prepared just from studying the desperate calls for help addressed to our committee on petitions. it is evident that, following the significant level of movement of workers between member states and the increasing number of mixed couples, the number of cross—border child protection issues involving custody removal is growing as well. i will give only one number, showing how real this problem is for my country, latvia. during only the first two months of this year, eleven children were removed from the families of latvian citizens working in britain and placed in british care families. cross-border mechanisms are to be put in place when it involves determining the custody of children. we need to input the receiving state’s duty to inform the consular authorities of the state of which the child is a national. a clear, urgent, detailed and developed definition of the term ‘habitual residence of the child’ in the revised brussels iia regulation is needed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– also, norway is not an eu member state. we as the committee of petitions were hearing these cases in nordic councils just last week. they are also giving a lot of attention to this – alongside the swedish, finnish and danish cases, also the norwegian situation. but the united kingdom is only one state where adoption without consent is working, and that is the biggest problem now for eu member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president! commissioner bulc, members of the council! i would like to recall that the commission presented the fourth railway package more than three years ago - at the beginning of 2013. the objective remains very relevant in the railway sector to remove the remaining obstacles to the creation of a european railway and to promote competition in the internal passenger transport markets, effectively creating a genuine single railway market in the european union. this is the right place to thank all those involved in reaching a compromise with the council on the three reports of this technical pillar. first of all, i would like to thank my good and great colleague, mr izaskun bilbao, and also michael cramer, who worked on the technical part of this pillar with his report, and also the many representatives of the shadow rapporteurs who found this good compromise, and of course the presidencies who worked, starting with the italian presidency in these informal talks and the latvian presidency, during which we managed to reach this common compromise in informal talks almost a year ago. i hope very much that nothing in coreper today will jeopardise the division of the political pillar. i would say that we will probably have the whole fourth railway package completed by the end of this year. what are we really voting on today in relation to this fourth railway package? what will change? the technical pillar consists of three documents: the regulation on the european railway agency, the directive on the interoperability of the european rail system and the railway safety directive. these three questions are clearly closely related. i shall be speaking mainly about my report on the european railway agency. so what was accomplished? simplified procedures for the authorisation of rolling stock have been achieved, particularly when used on the european rail network, or in cross-border transport and when working for one company in several countries. in the future, era will issue all authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border use. the era will also be the body that will issue safety certificates to railway undertakings providing cross-border services. consequently, railway undertakings will no longer have to contact each national authority dealing with the issue of these certificates and authorisations in a given country in such cases, but will be able to use this legal endorsement of the european railway agency. and what is important is that it has managed to maintain a balance between vehicles and companies involved only in domestic transport, in the transport of one country then the customer has the possibility to carry out this certification and authorisation both in the european railway agency and, of course, in the national body. what has been achieved is that the era is also given a greater role in the development of ertms control, because, despite the way this signalling system is developing in europe, this interoperability is often not good, and i think that michael cramer and izaskun bilbao are also talking about this. the era will finally be a single agency, and our document will also regulate the cooperation between the european railway agency and the national institutions. finally, a few words about the baltic peculiarity, because we are well integrated in the baltic states and finland in the large former, say, cis bloc with rail transport. we managed to find a good compromise that any railway operator or any other legal entity that wants to get an authorisation or certification can do so in one of the baltic countries, say, railway authorities, inspections, and within four years there has to be a situation where a certificate issued in one country is valid in the other countries as well, because there is none at the moment. and this situation, this fragmented system in these markets is also extremely bad. now we use it to avoid him. thank you.
the rapporteur. - mr president! first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the overall positive assessment of this work on the technical pillar. so thank you again for your work and for your appraisal! two things i'd like to mention after the debate. there were very high hopes that eventually the railways would have a single market in the european union and that all monopolies would have ceased to be able to operate in their own member state in such a monopoly position. i'd be a little more careful with this. with this legislation we have given the institutions the means to do that, but at the same time we have the experience that we have just recently reviewed the legislation of the first railway package. that was only a few years ago, and i would not like to see the fourth railway package legislation reviewed by our future colleagues or perhaps even by some of us. the other thing. this is not a federalist approach, as some of my colleagues have said. there is a single market approach here in the rail sector, and most of my colleagues in the european parliament, i think, are in favour of a single market. it is not a question of a federalist or a federalist on the political stage. we will be precise in our political assessments of this particular legislation. thank you.
in writing. ‒ on 2 december 2010, georgia became the first country in the caucasus region to conclude a comprehensive air transport agreement with the european union, which forms part of the framework of our union's external aviation policy. following croatia's accession to the eu in mid-2013, it should progressively accede to all agreements which the union has with third countries in various fields. given that the only change introduced in the existing agreement involves the accession of croatia itself, thus also providing a further impetus to the development of eu-georgia relations, it was logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ israel is one of the most important transport hubs in the mediterranean and middle east regions in terms of aviation, and one of the eu's main partners in a wide range of fields. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. as croatia became the 28th member state of the eu less than a month after signing this agreement, it was time to extend it to include our newest member state in the context of the agreement. given the potential benefits of such a step under the implementation agreement, it was logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations was created with the aim of establishing mutual support mechanisms between eu member states in the field of customs administration and indirectly in the field of border protection. for example, it covers, inter alia, criminal investigations into infringements of the customs rules of the member states and of the community. with the accession of croatia to the european union almost three years ago, the total length of our land and sea borders has increased significantly, which has inevitably led to the need to intensify mutual cooperation in the field of customs administration. this is particularly important in the western balkans region, where it can also indirectly provide the further context and relevant backdrops for cooperation between existing countries in this area not only between eu member states.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament concerns the possible exceeding of the speed limit by the polish member of parliament bolesław piasz in the urban area. the incident itself took place before mr pehas became a member of parliament. following the request sent to the president of parliament by the prosecutor general of the republic of poland on 29 october 2015 and the conclusion of the parliament's legal committee on the matter on 20 april 2016, it was decided to waive the immunity of mr pijas. i do not agree, since it is necessary to ensure that the provisions laid down in the legislation of all the member states and appropriate to situations of this kind are fully respected and that mr piecha does not have any conflict with the laws of the republic of poland.
in writing. ‒ ideally, within any society, there is a large number of children who grow up happy, are well-educated, have full-fledged, loving families and who study the specificities and traditions of their respective cultures, and there is a maximum degree of integration of these children in the realities of each particular society. sadly, this ideal situation does not always exist, and it is a minority in the world's children. social exclusion, violence, inadequate state or even parental attention to the quality of children's daily lives and education, high levels of risk in times of conflict, trafficking in human beings, child prostitution, even the unjustified removal of children from their families, which has become so widespread in recent years, especially in scandinavian countries, children are in fact the most vulnerable population group in any country. policies geared to the development of children must always be at the heart of all legislation, actions and actions relating to them. while parents themselves have a key role to play, countries must also play an active role in ensuring that their younger generations grow up to be happy, ready for life and able to work productively for themselves, their relatives and society as a whole. i also joined the call to the council to report on the progress made in the implementation of alarm systems used in cases of child abduction with cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ in early september 2015, commission president jean-claude juncker announced the creation of a european pillar of social rights, which will be implemented by the european commission in the coming years. the initiative as such is part of the commission's work towards a closer and fairer economic and monetary union. as a result, it primarily includes the euro area countries, although others could of course also join. the idea behind this pillar is to overcome the effects of the recent economic and financial crisis that are still being felt in our community, especially in terms of well-being, employment and social protection in general. institutional consultation is therefore needed to promote the necessary further efforts to make an effective contribution to the guarantee of the social rights of europeans. given the specific nature of the work of both the european parliament and the european economic and social committee, their mutual consultation on this matter is logical and highly necessary.
in writing. ‒ the primary objective of this regulation is to standardise the operation of the rail system in the european union through the harmonisation of the relevant structures and operating principles in the member states. for example, the need to submit multiple applications will be reduced. the eu railway agency itself will issue licences to all operators wishing to operate in the territory of more than one member state, thus engaging in cross-border transport. however, if the potential activity of the operator were to be limited to one member state, there would be a choice of where to obtain authorisation the edps or the relevant national authority. the same applies to the enhancement of the edps' role in the development of the european rail traffic management system. such further centralisation is necessary in particular because there are two track gauge systems 1435 mm and 1520 mm in the union. the latter also covers finland and the baltic states, thus making them a territorial periphery of the railway system in russia and the ussr. it is only logical that centralisation of powers would allow any issues in this respect to be dealt with more effectively. overall, i support this agreement as it will both contribute to the further development of the eu rail sector and will also contribute to certain savings for companies and manufacturers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the principle objective of the railway legislative package is to achieve a higher degree of harmonisation between our member states in the railway sector. in parallel to the enhanced role of the eu railway agency already mentioned today, the number of existing national rules will be minimised in cases where common ones are or will be in place. this package will also set specific deadlines to be followed when implementing the new operational rules for the railway sector. rail transport is today - compared to the past and taking into account the fuel used - by far one of the cleanest and also the most cost-effective modes of transport. in fact, the only equally profitable means of transporting cargo is a cargo ship. it is also sufficiently fast and comfortable for passenger transport. it is therefore clear that the adoption of this legislation is of the utmost importance and is necessary to guarantee the further development of our community railway sector.
in writing. ‒ similar to the issuing of operating licences, the adoption of this package of legislation will give the eu railway agency the power to also issue safety certificates to cross-border operators and, if requested, to operators operating in the same country. another important aspect of railway safety is the much more intensive and general training of staff - first of all, of course, oriented towards those who are in direct contact with rail transport both inside and outside. in view of the overall safety situation in the union, this is clearly a step in the right direction. in parallel to the introduction of safety-enhancing measures, member states' authorities will need to monitor, for example, the compliance of drivers with the new rules on working hours, driving and rest periods. it is very similar to the system that exists, for example, for bus or truck drivers. another very important aspect is the improvement of the information exchange system, which is particularly important in any type of emergency situation. the same applies to the provision of information to relatives of victims.
in writing. ‒ manipulation of interest rates on london interbank borrowing, the currency benchmark and a number of other indices can often threaten the financial stability of entire countries not just their stock markets. i therefore welcomed the legislative amendments introduced, the primary aim of which is to make benchmark manipulation illegal and to promote a more efficient and fair regulatory system. to achieve this, it is necessary to improve management systems and standards, primarily for the most widely used benchmarks. it is also important to improve transparency and make information more widely available. given that a greater diversity of benchmarks would have a positive impact on economic processes, it would be logical to maintain a wide variety of benchmarks on offer and to have access to them. the european securities and markets authority will play a key role in this process by developing draft regulatory technical standards on the management and control requirements of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ 2014 marked the beginning of the 2014-2020 programming period, which brought some changes to the work of the european commission and its executive agencies, which can be linked to a large extent to the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme. the total amount of commitments was eur 142,69 billion and the total amount of payments was eur 139,03 billion. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. although there were still unresolved problems in 2014 with the receipt of full revenue from various sources, as well as spending irregularities, in particular in the european commission's international cooperation and development policy segment, it can be said that overall the budgetary commitments were implemented in a sufficiently effective manner this year.
in writing. ‒ as already noted, one of the main problems is that the external financial assistance provided by the european commission through its agencies in particular europeaid is very rarely qualitatively assessed after such expenditure has been incurred. in fact, billions of euros are lost to the black hole every year. moreover, the commission often does not require any reporting from those receiving its assistance. in other words, the commission needs to maximise the rationalisation of its policy of allocating financial resources, especially when it comes to external assistance geared towards development support in third countries, primarily in africa and asia. however, the same is true of the eu's neighbours. while such assistance is vitally important, our taxpayers need to understand where their money, which also makes up the bulk of the eu budget, is going in principle.
in writing. ‒ since its inception in 1959, the european development funds have been and remain the main instrument of the european union for providing assistance to the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific regions, as well as to the overseas countries and territories. they are outside the eu budget, but while the member states provide the funds through the council, the commission directly controls the way the funds are spent. in particular, in 2014, the total amount of the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th edfs and co-financing amounted to eur 9,673 billion. while the union did provide enormous support to regions such as haiti or east africa, there were a total of 917 projects, of which 428 were then delayed or at risk of not achieving their objectives. the total amount of financing for such projects in 2014 was eur 9,188 billion. in other words, i again call on the commission, and on eu delegations around the world, to pay much closer attention to how our taxpayers' money is being spent in principle and whether there is any real, tangible benefit to be gained from these not-so-small sums spent.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the total budget of the european parliament was eur 2.168 billion, with an utilisation rate of 80.4%. 72% of all actual expenditure was related to the members, officials and temporary staff of the institution, the maintenance of buildings and parliamentary assistance. in particular, 4% or eur 71,5 million was spent on the maintenance and renovation of the konrad adenauer building in luxembourg. it can be noted that among the party groups, the socialists and democrats spent the most on their financial resources (84% of the 2014 budget) and the least on the united european greens/nordic greens (54%). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline. while there are still clearly various problems - administrative, financial and other - it can be concluded that parliament worked sufficiently efficiently and qualitatively in 2014, especially in view of a number of reforms initiated. although it would be better if our citizens were much more informed about this than they are today.
in writing. ‒ the total budget of the european council and the council for 2014 was eur 534.2 million, of which 91.3% was spent. in particular, the council's budget fell by 0.2% or eur 1.3 million this year. unfortunately, the report does not contain detailed financial data on expenditure during the year. i therefore unequivocally support the need to ensure parliament's access to information on the implementation of the council's annual budget. aside from the financial data, i would also like to join the calls for the council and the european council to engage as actively as possible with the european parliament in the decision-making and prior consultation process. the same applies to the lack of transparency in the trialogue.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the court of justice of the european union became one of the few community institutions in which the court of auditors found no significant weaknesses in audited human resources and procurement, which is very welcome. the total budget for 2014 was eur 354,88 million, which was 99% used, an increase of 96,3% compared to 2013. 75% of the cost of the task and the human resources. as regards productivity, in 2014 the courts composing the court of justice, namely the eu general court and the civil service tribunal, received 1691 cases and closed 1685 cases. overall, the court of justice delivered a high-quality performance in 2014. however, we would like our citizens to be better informed about the legal possibilities to defend their interests also in this instance, when the need arises.
in writing. ‒ the court's primary task is to ensure that european union funds are correctly collected from all possible and legally derived sources and subsequently used in accordance with existing commitments. the court thus also provides assistance aimed at improving the financial management of the union. in 2014, the court's budget was €133,468 million less than a year earlier, compared with €142,761 million. the budget was implemented by 98,8%, which was more efficient than in 2013 by 92%. during the year, 91 reports and opinions were produced and the reform of the court's operation, which was aimed at improving the efficiency of the institution's work, was completed. i was pleased to note that the results of the 2014 work became the most comprehensive in the court's existence. it is hoped that the institution will continue to fulfil its duties as effectively as possible. although its reports and other documents do not have legal force, its work is clearly very important, first and foremost in terms of the overall improvement of the level of democracy in the eu's administrative institutions and the efficiency of the use of resources.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the court of justice, the economic and social committee did not have a material error of budget implementation in 2014. the total budget amounted to eur 128,56 million, of which the institution used 95,6%. the total compensation for travel expenses and allowances was eur 17,376 million, which may be due, firstly, to the fact that the institution's work is heavily dependent on persons not permanently resident in brussels. the eesc's specific nature of work makes it one of the most important in eu governance, and i therefore joined the call for the institution to maximise its efforts to inform the citizens of the community and other stakeholders more effectively about its work and its direct and indirect impact on the daily lives of europeans. i congratulated the fact that the number of meetings using the videoconferencing facility, which allows the direct follow-up of the institution's meetings, has doubled compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european committee of the regions, as we know, is an assembly of representatives at local and regional level, within which they can express their views directly and communicate with the other eu administrations, thus progressively increasing the regions' participation in the union's governance. the 2014 budget was eur 87,6 million, which was used by 98,5%. i was very disappointed to see that the committee of the regions' rent debt had reached over eur 65 million at the end of 2014, and i therefore strongly urge the committee of the regions to find effective long-term solutions to this problem together with the european parliament. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. i was pleased to note that in 2014 the european charter for multi-level governance was adopted, which aims to develop new forms of dialogue and partnership between all public authorities in the european union in order to optimise public policy orientations and public spending, as well as to improve the implementation of community policies.
in writing. ‒ the european external action service, also known as the european union's ministry of foreign affairs, is one of the most important eu administrative mechanisms responsible for the external dimension of the policy to be implemented. in 2014, the eeas budget was eur 518,6 million, while the overall error rate in the administrative budget was 0,5%, according to the court of auditors' report. however, in the case of ex ante and ex post controls, the level of error found in the commitments and payments to be verified was estimated at 18%. in total, eur 212.9 million was used to maintain the central office and a further 305.7 million for the union delegations. i strongly supported the call for the eeas to maximise its efforts to coordinate more closely the promotion of foreign policy with the member states' foreign ministries and missions at different levels abroad. the same applies to the need to develop a comprehensive strategy and vision that would contain guidelines for the implementation of the union's external policy, in particular in the light of the rapidly changing world situation.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, according to the court's report, neither the audit findings on human resources and procurement shortcomings nor the significant errors in administrative expenditure were found, which is very welcome. the total budget for 2014 was eur 9,857 million. during the year, the authority responded to 1823 requests for information, registered 2079 complaints, provided 19170 advice through an interactive guide on its website, opened 342 investigations (325 following complaints and a further 17 on its own initiative) and closed 400 investigations (387 based on complaints and a further 13 on its own initiative). the european ombudsman, together with the court of auditors, the court of justice and other similar institutions, forms a kind of institutional 'group' whose members have the task of administering the policies of the european union, with the utmost attention to the protection of the interests and rights of its citizens. we therefore hope that the person who takes up the post of european ombudsman will continue to work actively for the benefit of europeans.
in writing. ‒ the european data protection supervisor is responsible for monitoring the processing of personal data in the eu administration and ensuring compliance with data protection rules. the authority shall cooperate closely with parliament, the commission and the council, as well as with other data protection authorities, primarily in the member states. the total budget for 2014 was eur 8,013 million, of which 92% was used. the commission has also received information from the united kingdom on the implementation of the council's recommendations on the use of the financial corrections mechanism. the work of the edps is undeniably of great importance, especially in the light of the negotiations on the same transatlantic trade and investment partnership and the privacy concerns it has raised. it is hoped that, regardless of the outcome of this or any other negotiations (e.g. with google), the privacy rights of europeans will be fully preserved and respected.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the total budget of eu agencies was around eur 1.9 billion, 5% less than the previous year. this €1.9 billion in turn represented around 1.4% of the eu's general budget. it should be noted that only 63% (eur 1.2 billion) came from eu funding the rest came from other sources. in total, these agencies employed 6578 staff at that time, or 14% of the total number of union officials. it should be noted that 93 per cent of agencies had joint services with other union agencies and institutions in 2014. hopefully, this will increase in the future. fortunately, 29 agencies (or more than 90%) had a policy of publishing cvs and declarations of interests of board members, senior staff and external and staff experts, which play an important role in promoting transparency, although only 23 agencies published them on their websites. interestingly, only half published information on their websites in all the official languages of the union, while 9% of the information was available only in english. it is understood that full linguistic availability is not possible in many cases, but it is imperative to publish information in at least three of the most widely used languages of the union english, german and french , which is the absolute minimum.
in writing. ‒ the total budget for the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for 2014 was eur 10.88 million, 8.8% less than in 2013. the financing shall be entirely from the union budget. interestingly, at the end of the year, the balance after the relevant equalisation was reduced from eur 5,5 million to eur 3,3 million. this was due to the energy market integrity and transparency regulation. the overall budget implementation rate reached 95% at the end of the year. i joined the call for the long-planned european school to be set up as soon as possible in ljubljana (where the institution is also located), which would allow the children of staff and potentially other children to start learning together in one of the best educational formats in europe.
in writing. ‒ the total budget for 2014 was eur 4,162,874, an increase of 17% compared to 2013, largely due to the incorporation of the internal assigned revenue of the previous year. the level of implementation reached a high 97,91%, which was 8,36% higher than in 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the measures in question. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. i would like to say that i am very pleased that such an important institution (which is also closely involved in the planned phasing out of roaming charges) was located a few years ago in my own country, latvia.
in writing. ‒ the overall budget of the translation centre for the institutions of the european union in 2014 was eur 56.27 million, an increase of 7.81% compared to the previous year. based on the results of its work in 2014, the centre planned to simplify access to its board-related documents as much as possible through the recycling of the website, which is to be completed by next year. the commission notes that the average cost of page translation in 2014 was 2% lower than in the previous year, but the average cost of editing increased by 23%. the centre shall actively implement training activities for its staff. the centre is also actively collaborating with other eu agencies, in particular the european railway agency and the office for harmonization in the internal market. overall, the centre was quite productive in 2014 and had a positive impact on eu activities, especially given that only a small number of eu institutions have their own translation departments the rest have to use other resources, including the cor.
in writing. ‒ the total budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training in 2014 was eur 17.276 million, which was 3.62% less than in 2013. the budget implementation rate reached 95,68%, which was 3,29% higher than in 2013. the centre's activities in 2014 did not overlap with those of other eu, member state or international bodies, but potential synergies with the european training foundation (etf), the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) and the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) were identified. in particular, there was a very close cooperation with the etf and eurofound. it is to be welcomed that the centre has actively used its website, social media, organised events in the host member state (greece) and actively cooperated with the commission on a number of publications and press releases to promote its work and to raise the visibility of vocational education and training opportunities in the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ within the european union, europol deals with practical issues of police functioning, where it can have a say, while the european police college provides high-quality academic support, bringing together top-level policemen from the member states, thus promoting cross-border law enforcement cooperation. in 2014, the budget of the academy was eur 8,576 million, an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate was 2.51%, higher than the previous year's 97.4%. it should be noted that the academy was previously based in the united kingdom. its relocation to hungary cost eur 1,006,515, of which 43% was financed by the academy itself using existing savings.
in writing. ‒ given its scope and specificity, the european aviation safety agency is undoubtedly one of the most important eu agencies. it is the authority which authorises foreign operators to operate in the territory of the union and ensures that safety rules are properly implemented in the community, primarily at airports and on aircraft, in close cooperation with the national authorities. in 2014, easa's budget amounted to eur 181,18 million, which is 8,47% more than the previous year. it should be noted that only 21,1% of easa's annual budget was financed from the union budget. the level of compliance decreased to 97,1%, which was 0,9% lower than in 2013. although easa was established in 2004, a comprehensive headquarters agreement with germany was still not signed in 2014 which would significantly contribute to improving the functioning of the agency on the ground. in view of the air disasters of that period alone, such as the disappearance of mh370, the dramatic crash of mh17, the air asia qz8501 accident, etc., i joined the call to easa to pay much closer attention to the operation of foreign operators in the union and, where possible, in its neighbours, and to intensify cooperation with foreign partners.
in writing. ‒ with the emergence of the migrant and refugee crisis last year, the role of the european asylum support office has already increased significantly compared to previous years. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was significantly higher than the union industry's market share. the easo budget for 2014 was eur 15,664 million, of which 94% came from the union budget. interestingly, the office experienced a high turnover in 2014 with the departure of 14 staff, including 4 from senior management. although this may theoretically be linked to the current crisis, this trend is in any case not good, as it does not allow the institution to carry out its functional duties fully and efficiently. i unequivocally joined the call for the office to make its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest as publicly available as possible, which was still not achieved in 2014. the same applies to the prevention of corruption, which is neither de facto nor de jure permissible in an eu institution.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority is an independent union body tasked with ensuring an effective and appropriate level of regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the authority was established in 2011 in part as a response to the financial crisis of 2008-2009. in the context of its functions, eba shall cooperate very closely with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. the total budget for 2014 was eur 33,6 million, an increase of 29,39% compared to 2013. the authority shall be financed by contributions from both the union (40%) and the member states (60%). the level of implementation of the 2014 budget was 99,81%, which is 2,28% higher than the previous year. unfortunately, in 2014 the authority did not sufficiently and comprehensively inform parliament of all the details of the work carried out at that time, and i therefore unambiguously joined the call to remedy this shortcoming.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control has the primary task of improving the protection of the community against infectious diseases. for example, the centre currently analyses and interprets data from the member states on 52 communicable diseases through the european monitoring system, and provides scientific advice to member states' governments and institutions. the importance of the institution has been particularly heightened by the outbreaks of ebola and zika virus in the vicinity of europe. in the case of ebola, the centre successfully responded to 117 emergency cases in 2014 in the context of urgent disease control measures. the total budget for 2014 was eur 60,486 million, an increase of 3,72% compared to 2013. 97% were financed from the union budget. the level of implementation reached 98.77%, 5.81% higher than a year earlier. one of the main achievements of 2014 - apart from the above mentioned ebola response and other profile tasks - was the development and availability of the infectious disease surveillance atlas on the centre's website, which gave wide access to this important information to institutions, the public, various organisations, etc.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency (or the european chemicals agency) is responsible for promoting the safe use of chemicals. the european chemicals agency (echa) is implementing new union legislation on chemicals, thus taking care of the health of europeans, the environment, innovation and competitiveness in europe. recalling the series of votes on the acceptability of glyphosate in the member states of the union, it can be noted that echa itself is one of the primary actors in the initial [scientific] assessment of this issue. in 2014, the total budget amounted to eur 114,112 million, an increase of 6,37% compared to the previous year. the bulk of this sum comes from the various types of levies, contributions, levies, etc. each year, rather than from the union budget as such. the implementation rate in 2014 was 97,08%. it is worth noting that the agency devotes 78% of its human resources to its core functions. at the end of 2014, 479 of the 495 staff posts available had been filled and 118 contract staff and seconded national experts were employed. overall, the agency's work can be classified as of sufficient quality, although it would be desirable if the commission's communication with echa on various issues, in particular the acceptability of chemicals on the eu market, were more transparent than it is at present.
in writing. ‒ the european environment agency provides information and assessments on the state of the environment, trends in environmental development, policies and their effectiveness, as well as possible trends and challenges for the future. it is worth noting that the efta countries are 32 member states excluding the 28 eu member states plus iceland, liechtenstein, norway, switzerland and turkey. the 2014 budget amounted to eur 52,573 million, an increase of 6,7% compared to 2013. of these, 76,81% were financed from the union budget. the level of compliance reached a whopping 99.19%. given the trends in environmental developments over the past decades, including the potential impact on the economy and other areas, and the recently adopted paris declaration, the role of the eea is undoubtedly very important and will continue to be so.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency was set up to promote the implementation of common standards for control, inspection and surveillance to be carried out under the common fisheries policy. in other words, the member states' quota management, fisheries and fisheries regulations - all of these and many others - are also the responsibility of the efca, which it shares with the commission and the relevant member states' authorities. the budget for 2014 was eur 9,217 million, fully financed by the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 99.09%, 0.45% higher than a year earlier. it is to be welcomed that in 2014 the agency has committed to introducing a section on its website to introduce visitors to efca's work in all official languages of the union, as well as in galician, given efca's location in this historic region of spain. it should be noted in particular that, throughout its existence, the efca has made a significant contribution to the implementation of the cfp and is actively cooperating with the member states.
in writing. ‒ the work of the european food safety authority covers all issues that directly or indirectly affect the safety of food and feed, including animal health and welfare, plant protection and plant health, and nutrition. it should be noted that this body plays one of the most important roles in the possibility of placing various products on the eu market by issuing the relevant licences. it also includes gmos, pesticides, food additives and nanotechnology products. the budget for 2014 was eur 79,701 million, an increase of 2,11% compared to 2013. the total amount was paid from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 99.69%, 0.86% higher than in the previous year. given that the scandals involving efsa have been occurring for more than a year, i urge the agency to pay the utmost attention to further promoting the transparency of its work and to cooperate more closely with the scientific community. although there is some parallel between these two approaches to the promotion of work in civil society, it would be desirable to intensify efforts in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the tasks of the european institute for gender equality include collecting and analysing comparable data on gender issues, developing a methodology to integrate gender equality aspects into all policy areas, promoting exchanges of good practice and facilitating dialogue between stakeholders, and increasing public awareness. the 2014 budget amounted to eur 7,34 million, 3,08% less than the previous year. the budget implementation rate was 99,04%. in particular, i would like to acknowledge the very active regular cooperation between the eige and the parliament's femm committee. the biological and philosophical 'dualism' of gender equality aside, its promotion of a qualitative solution is clearly one of the most positive real drivers of economic growth and social cohesion in the union. i therefore unreservedly wish the institute success and fruitful work in the years ahead, which will certainly contribute to a more open and progressive europe.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority was established in 2010 to prevent risks of destabilisation in the insurance sector, to ensure financial stability and to promote a more integrated, transparent, efficient and secure financial market. the esaw thus became the 'incarnation of the institutional response' to the financial crisis of 2008-09 when the eu financial supervisory system revealed very significant weaknesses. the authority's budget for 2014 was eur 21,583 million, an increase of 15% compared to 2013. 40% was financed from the union budget. the eiopa does not have a decision-making power its task is largely to advise the commission, the council and the parliament. i therefore call for intensified efforts in this direction, by providing full information on the data used and the adapted methodology of analysis in all projects and technical opinions on a continuous basis.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology, which, like the european police academy, is located in the hungarian capital budapest, has the primary task of promoting innovation in the eu member states. the eit helps businesses, education and research institutions to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship. in other words, the institute's work has a clear practical element. the eit budget for 2014 was eur 233,115 million, an increase of 65,54% compared to 2013. such a major change is due to the extension of the institution's functions and the increase in the number of beneficiaries. the budget implementation rate decreased from 96,97% a year earlier to 94,13%. as the effectiveness of the institute's work depends to a large extent on the level of awareness of the general public and stakeholders, it is very welcome that the eit started operating a new website in 2014, which is much more dynamic and functional than the previous one.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency's main task is to protect and promote public and animal health by carrying out the evaluation and monitoring of medicines for human and veterinary use. it is important to note that the ema is directly responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for european medicines authorisations. in other words, without an ema authorisation, no medicinal product can be legally marketed in the territory of the eu member states. in 2014, the agency's budget amounted to eur 282,474 million, an increase of 12,29% compared to 2013. only 12,53% of the ema budget was financed from the union budget. the rate of implementation was 94,32%, which was 2,44% lower than the previous year. the concerns were unequivocally joined by the fact that, without the appropriate approval of the commission or the parliament, the ema started a pilot project on adaptive licensing in march 2014, which could in fact lead to a situation where the medicinal product is licensed after it has entered the community market, which is simply not acceptable. it is clear that, both in terms of the facts and in terms of the scope of the activities, ema should ensure maximum transparency in access to clinical reports, which also applies to the provision of information on all aspects of the work carried out by the agency.
in writing. ‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is an eu body tasked with collecting, analysing and disseminating factual, reliable, credible and comparable information on drugs and drug addiction, while providing europeans with a comprehensive and evidence-based picture of the drug problem. the emcdda actively collaborates with a wide range of scientists, policy-makers and practitioners. in 2014, the centre's budget amounted to eur 15,675 million, which is 3,88% less than in 2013. 93,4% were financed from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 99,62%. drug distribution and drug addiction are problems in the european union, in all its member states, especially the less developed ones. one of the main problems is the use of drugs by children and adolescents, such as the distribution of all kinds of 'legal drugs' that can be bought even by minors. in other words, the work of the emcdda, which also covers these issues, is clearly very important and will hopefully continue to be quite effective in the years ahead.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency provides technical assistance to the union and its member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation in areas such as safety of navigation, pollution from ships and maritime safety. this also applies to preventive measures to prevent oil spills, the organisation of rescue operations and the surveillance of ships. emsa also ensures the identification and tracking of long-range ship movements. the 2014 budget amounted to eur 52,4 million, which is 9,37% less than the previous year. the level of compliance was 94,78%. from a practical point of view, it is very welcome that 20.3% of emsa's posts are allocated to administrative support and coordination, 70.8% to core activities and 6.6% to control and financial tasks. the emsa cooperates actively with other eu agencies, such as the european fisheries control agency and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which is located in relative geographical proximity.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for network and information security is the eu's specialist centre of expertise in the field of cybersecurity. it helps the union and the member states to be better equipped and prepared to prevent, detect and address information security problems. enisa actively cooperates with eu agencies such as the european police college, the office of the european regulator for electronic communications, the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice and the european aviation safety agency. this also applies to the nato cyber defence centre in tallinn, the capital of estonia. the budget for 2014 was eur 9,708 million, an increase of 0,39% compared to 2013. the implementation rate of 100% is very welcome. according to 2014 data, 68% of the agency's staff were assigned to the operational function category, 22% to the administrative support and coordination category and 10% to the neutral function category.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency, whose functioning reform was already discussed today, has as its primary task to help maximise the integration of the european railway systems so that train traffic is safer and continues across europe without stopping at national borders. this therefore also applies very closely to the harmonisation of differences in track gauge systems. the 2014 budget amounted to eur 25,716 million, fully financed by the union budget. this amount was 0,55 % lower than a year earlier. the budget implementation rate was 97,34%, which was 0,53%, lower than in 2013. the era is located in two french cities: lille and valence. although they are located in close proximity to each other, this does, to some extent, impede the full and effective functioning of the agency. i was pleased to join in the appreciation of the fact that the agency's role in the development, testing and post-audit of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) was very productive and positive.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority is tasked with improving investor protection and promoting the stability and orderly functioning of financial markets. the authority was established in 2011 as one of the primary responses to the financial crisis of 2008-2009. the supervisory board of esma shall be composed of the heads of the relevant authorities of all 28 member states, observers from iceland, liechtenstein and norway, and the commission, as well as representatives of the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european systemic risk college. in other words, the institution is responsible for pursuing its objectives also outside the eu, which, given its scope of activity, is clearly a logical and necessary step. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 33,267 million, an increase of 18,02% compared to the previous year, due in large part to the additional tasks assigned. the budget implementation rate reached 98,89%, which is 5,71% higher than in 2013. it should be noted that, in accordance with parliament's decision, the commission will be invited in the white paper foreseen for the second quarter of this year and in the legislative proposal to be submitted by 2017 to propose a different financing arrangement for the annual budget of the authority with the aim of fully replacing contributions from the competent authorities of the member states with fees to be paid by market participants. this is expected to significantly enhance the independence of the institution's work.
in writing. ‒ the european education fund helps partner countries to modernise their education and training systems. in other words, this agency does not deal with education within the eu its geographical focus is on the eu enlargement countries, the eu neighbourhood policy countries, russia and the countries of central asia. in addition, the etf has a wide cooperation network with organisations worldwide, including, for example, bilateral funding agencies in the eu member states, the world bank, the organisation for economic cooperation and development and the united nations. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 20,158 million, which is 0,07% more than in the previous year. the budget shall be financed in full by the union. the implementation rate for 2014 was 99,9%. the etf's work is undoubtedly of fundamental importance, although it is unfortunately currently very hampered by instability in the middle east and north africa region and in ukraine. it is hoped that the fund will be able to resume and/or continue its objectives in these and other partner countries in the shortest possible time.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, set up at the end of 2012, works to enable border guards, police, customs and courts to exchange and compare information in their databases within the eu, for example on visas or asylum requests. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 59,38 million, 3,2% less than the previous year. it shall be fully financed from the union budget. its compliance rate was 99,32%. eu-lisa shall cooperate closely with other eu agencies in the field of home affairs, such as the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu, the european police office, the european police college, the european asylum support office and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. eu-lisa thus plays a very important supporting role in the work of these and other institutions, especially in the present context of the worsening migrant/refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for safety and health at work's main task is to collect, analyse and disseminate information to those (specialists, institutions, etc.) working in the field of safety and health at work. making workplaces safer, healthier and more productive, and promoting a culture of risk prevention, is eu-osha's objective. the main partners are the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the european chemicals agency, the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european institute for gender equality, the fundamental rights agency and the european education fund. the budget for 2014 was eur 17,256 million, which is 1,17% less than in 2013. of these, the union contribution was eur 14,987 million, down 4,02% on the previous year. the budget implementation rate was 98,65%. it is worth noting that the eu-osha information network is made up of contact points in more than 30 european countries, usually appointed by the government of each particular country and usually national occupational safety and health authorities.
in writing. ‒ the euratom supply agency is responsible for ensuring the regular and fair supply of nuclear fuel to users in the member states of the european union. to this end, the eaa applies a supply policy based on the principle of equal access to sources of supply. the 2014 budget was eur 104 000 , the same as the previous year. even considering that the agency has a staff of approximately 15 and that none of them is directly involved in the supply of nuclear fuel to consumers, the agency's role in the union's nuclear energy is undeniably very important, although of course only those countries where nuclear power plants or nuclear fuel suppliers are active can directly benefit from it.
in writing. ‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is intended to contribute to the development of social and employment policies within the union, based on research. the institution was established in 1975, making it and the european centre for the development of vocational training the two oldest institutions. eurofound's main objective is to help design and build better living and working conditions. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 20,774 million, an increase of 0,73% compared to the previous year. the level of compliance was 99,66%. i welcome the completion of three major reports in 2014: 'psychosocial risks in europe', 'labour mobility in the eu latest trends and policy positions' and 'social cohesion and well-being in the eu'. these and a number of other studies and reports have been and continue to be used regularly in the work of the union and member states' institutions, which is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the european judicial cooperation unit helps law enforcement authorities in the member states to cooperate with each other in order to combat serious forms of organised crime affecting at least two member states at the same time. in other words, the institution has an important coordinating role. the unit shall be composed of one representative from each eu country, within the college of eurojust. the budget for 2014 was eur 33,667 million, an increase of 4,04% compared to 2013. the level of implementation reached 99.82%, 0.21% higher than a year earlier. given the specific nature of the institution's work, i supported the idea of making the common rules governing lobbying in the case of eurojust as specific and harmonised as possible, although this of course applies to all union institutions and agencies at least because their work has a significant impact on all our member states, not just one or a few.
in writing. ‒ the european police office is tasked with helping member states' law enforcement agencies to combat serious transnational crime and terrorism more effectively. the european parliament has also been working closely with its foreign partners on the same lines. the budget for 2014 was eur 84,34 million, an increase of 2,2% compared to 2013. the level of compliance was 99,7%. given the fundamental role of europol in the fight against crime in the union, i unanimously supported the request that the office regularly publish its consolidated annual activity report, rather than just the general report. at least, it would provide a much clearer picture of the situation in this area in the union.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights is tasked with providing independent, evidence-based recommendations in the field of fundamental rights to decision-makers at union and national level. this applies, for example, to the various forms of discrimination, access to justice, racism and xenophobia, data protection, victims' rights or children's rights. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 21,229 million, which is 0,56% less than the previous year. approximately 99% of the fra budget was financed from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 100% in 2014 for the second consecutive year. it is to be welcomed that the basic information on the agency is available on its website in all the official languages of the union. in addition, the fra is very active in using social media to provide europeans with important information about its activities on a regular basis. another positive element in principle is the creation in february 2014 of a dedicated webpage for children, part of the agency's website on children's rights, where they can find information about their rights in the most accessible and understandable language.
in writing. ‒ over the last few years, the role of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in implementing union policies has become one of the most important of all eu agencies as the migrant/refugee crisis has worsened. the tasks of frontex shall be to coordinate operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management, to assist member states in the implementation of training of national border guards (as well as in the establishment of common training standards), to facilitate risk analysis, to develop studies appropriate to its field of competence on the current situation and its future development prospects, to assist member states with enhanced technical and operational assistance at the external borders where necessary, and to provide member states with the necessary support in organising joint return operations. the 2014 budget amounted to eur 97,945 million, an increase of 4,25% compared to the previous year. in particular, the union contribution was eur 86,81 million, which was 1,53% lower than the previous year. as you know, the structure and operational specifications of frontex have recently been substantially reformed and extended, as have the annual budget and staff. given the current circumstances, it is likely that the situation will not change much in the coming years without further much needed reforms in a number of policies and other areas.
in writing. ‒ the european gnss agency is responsible for managing the public interest in the eu's global navigation satellite system programmes the european geostationary navigation overlay systems (egnos) and galileo. the specificities of the agency's work thus overlap closely with several eu policies, which in turn means that the gsa actively cooperates with a large number of union and member state authorities. in 2014, the budget amounted to eur 25,369 million, 81,55% more than in the previous year. the level of compliance was 99,84%. it is to be welcomed that in 2014, the agency organised open days, conferences, public exhibitions and regular public events in close cooperation with the commission, with the aim of promoting its work and improving its visibility in the host member state (czech republic). it is hoped that the agency will continue to actively pursue activities in this direction in the future.
in writing. ‒ the mission of the artificial intelligence systems joint undertaking, or artemis, is to help the european union's industry to consolidate and extend its global leadership in the field of artificial intelligence technology. artemis was set up at the end of 2007 for a period of 10 years, during which its maximum union funding could reach eur 420 million. the member states' contribution must be at least 1,8 times the contribution from the union budget. although the joint undertaking has been and continues to be quite effective in achieving its creation objectives in practice throughout its existence, i join in expressing concern that throughout all these years artemis has never once taken any action with regard to the various internal control standards relating to information and financial statements. it is hoped that this shortfall will be remedied towards the end of the 10-year period.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky 2 joint undertaking, which replaced the clean sky joint undertaking for a further 10 years in 2014, is tasked with developing innovative technologies to help reduce co2 and other emissions from aircraft, as well as noise, for different types of aircraft. in the case of the first iteration, the maximum union contribution could have been up to eur 800 million, while clean sky 2 already had a contribution of eur 1,755 billion. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: the remaining members of the joint undertaking will thus have to invest eur 2,194 billion. these investments may be in cash or in kind. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. although less than agriculture, industry, or cars, airplanes (and airplanes in particular) have a significant negative impact on the environment. the clean sky 2 joint undertaking's work is therefore of great importance and will hopefully continue to be as efficient as possible in the future.
in writing. ‒ the ecsel joint undertaking's tasks include, inter alia, fostering a strong and globally competitive electronic components and systems industry in the european union, coordinating a strategy with member states to attract private investment, and ensuring the availability of electronic components and systems in key markets. in other words, there is a deep interconnection between the scientific, economic and industrial aspects of the joint undertaking, as well as the social aspects. it is important to note that one of the objectives of the ecsel joint undertaking is to functionally replace the artemis and eniac joint undertakings. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service. given the importance of the sector concerned for the further development of the economies of the member states of the union and of several other areas, it is hoped that ecsel will bring about ever closer cooperation not only between the eu, the associated countries and various other bodies, but also beyond, as the growth potential here is clearly very high. the same applies to the need to take more active account of the findings and recommendations of the joint undertaking's audits, which are not currently being fully implemented.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking, like artemis and its successor ecsel, is active in the field of nanoelectronics, bringing together the commission, the eu member states, its associated countries and a number of smes, scientific institutes, universities, etc. the primary objective of eniac is therefore to develop core competencies in nanoelectronics for different applications. the maximum union contribution to this joint undertaking could potentially reach eur 450 million by the end of 2017. the member states, on the other hand, have to cover 1,8 times the amount and provide contributions in kind to cover the operational costs of the joint undertaking. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. given the scope and potential of eniac, as well as the actual benefits that this joint undertaking could bring and has already brought to the economic and technological development of the community, it should also be important to understand the amount of resources invested in promoting the activities of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is to maximise its positive contribution towards the creation of a low-carbon economy in europe by 2050. reducing the cost of fuel cell production, improving electricity capacity and efficiency, reducing the use of critical or rare materials and other sub-tasks are on the list of topical actions. the joint undertaking was established in 2014 to replace the first iteration, fuel cells and hydrogen 2. the maximum contribution from the union for the periods of operation of the joint undertakings shall be eur 470 million for the yei1 and eur 665 million for the yei2. sectoral groups are also involved, both financially and in kind. i added to this appreciation the fact that the eeas has published a programme review report every year since 2011, as well as a report on the socio-economic impact of its activities.
in writing. ‒ the mission of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking is to promote drug development by facilitating open research collaborations that have the potential to accelerate the development of the medicines needed. this important work brings together academia, the pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprises, patient organisations and drug regulators. the maximum union contribution to imi over the lifetime of the imi will be eur 1 billion, while imi2 (which replaced the first in 2014) will be eur 1,638 billion. in the case of imi2, the other participants (excluding the commission) are to bear 50% of the operational costs and to contribute to the coverage of the operating costs in cash or in kind. the joint undertaking's contribution to the implementation of the programme is estimated at eur 5 million.
in writing. ‒ the iter and f4e joint undertaking, also known as the 'f4e joint undertaking', is designed to promote the progressive development of fusion energy, which could eventually lead to demonstration participation in the construction of fusion reactors. the joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 35 years. initially, €6.6 billion was allocated to the first phase of construction, but this amount actually increased each year. moreover, the implementation of the phase is already delayed this year. the commission has also proposed to amend the financial rules of the f4e joint undertaking in order to take account of the new rules on the financial rules of the f4e joint undertaking. nuclear power was once thought to be the crown jewel of energy evolution. today, it is nuclear fusion. it is therefore hoped that f4e will resolve as soon as possible the financial and project implementation problems that have existed for years and will be able to make a positive contribution to the development of the european energy sector.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking serves as the research and development platform on which the future air traffic management system of the single european sky will be built. today, sesar brings together some 3000 experts from the european union and other regions of the world. in terms of budget, the development phase of the sesar project (2008-2016) was allocated a total amount of eur 2,1 billion, to be shared equally between the union, eurocontrol and the public and private partners involved in the project. it is commendable that 348 (or 94%) of the 369 projects under the sesar programme were either in progress or completed as of the end of 2014. the quality and safety of air traffic are one of the cornerstones of the development and de facto quality of life in europe and the world, and it is therefore hoped that the sesar joint undertaking will continue to work as productively as possible.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european investment bank financed a total of 285 000 smes, which employed some 3.6 million people. 413 contracts for projects within the union were also signed, worth eur 69 billion, and a further 92 contracts for projects outside the community, worth eur 7.98 billion. given its contribution to the economic and other development of the union and the various partner countries, it can be conclusively concluded that the eib has one of the most positive roles in improving low levels of investment for the benefit of member states' economies. i joined the call for the eib to give the utmost attention to investments in regions with the highest unemployment rates, as well as in less developed regions, particularly in the periphery of the union. in this context, i am pleased that in 2014 a large amount of eur 19.9 billion (or 29% of total investments made during the year) was released in support of cohesion policy. another very positive aspect of the eib's work in 2014 was the financing of 84 projects in the field of environmental protection and improvement, with a total value of eur 12.6 billion. i support the view that the eib's annual reports should pay more attention to the results of completed projects, where the effectiveness of eib financing is assessed.
in writing. ‒ in warfare, unimaginable atrocities are often committed, either intentionally or unintentionally. in the second case, they may be justified at least in theory, but in the first case, not in principle. only moral hazards can deliberately endanger innocent people and children who suffer in conflict. i strongly condemn the use of civilians as human shields by parties to armed conflicts. islamic state, boko haram, hamas and other terrorist organizations often do exactly what is neither permissible nor morally justifiable. i added my deep respect for teachers, doctors and other professionals, such as humanitarian workers, for their continued courage and determination to work in conditions where the inevitable could happen at any moment. i strongly urge my colleagues and i to call on international institutions (in particular the un security council), states, ngos and any other actors with a say in ending such attacks to act in this direction. even warfare has to have its own rules, which by definition must be implemented.
in writing. ‒ public access to documents is one of the most important aspects of promoting democracy in the european union and its member states. it is a good thing that, say, during each session, documents relating to the issues dealt with during that session appear on parliament's website. the same applies to the large number of regulations, agreements, drafts and other documents in the case of the commission, the council and other community institutions. the problem is that often the information provided is either incomplete or is released too late. this creates a situation where both ordinary citizens and interested parties cannot understand in a secular way what is on the agenda and what is in principle happening in the union's administration. another problem is that the information itself may be located somewhere, yet it has become a quest to find it. it is logical that the information to which they are subject should be made publicly available, but this is often not done. i therefore unequivocally joined the call on all eu institutions to apply stricter transparency rules by making the relevant material public. the creation of a single lobby register became a very important step in this process. it is hoped that, as elsewhere, information that is not in any way classified will be made public in an open and accessible manner sooner rather than later.
in writing. ‒ in the modern era, given the demographic pattern of europe, the economic situation, migration flows and a number of other factors, in particular the increased participation of women in the labour market, the group of workers such as household workers is becoming increasingly important. caring for the elderly, children or the disabled, simple cleaning, cooking or other tasks are very important tasks that employers often cannot or do not want to do themselves. the problem is that often such employment is not declared, contracted or fairly paid. violence or extreme psychological stress may even be present. the trade unions concerned often do not exist at all. women are, of course, the most vulnerable group, especially from migrant backgrounds. in addition, this is very often the case with europeans themselves, such as poles, hungarians, latvians and other central and eastern europeans (especially ukrainians and moldovans) who go to work in this field from their own countries. the fight against undeclared employment, potential violence at work, the associated social exclusion and other problems must be a focus in the member states and also at the level of the whole community. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new legislation, in particular on the legal basis for the new legislation.
in writing. ‒ with the rapid development of new technologies and the relatively recent beginnings of the digital age, gender equality no longer seems unattainable. the rapid expansion of internet access opens all these doors to a degree that was not possible before. to enable women to make the most of existing and potential opportunities, thereby promoting greater gender equality, it is necessary to promote the wider dissemination and availability of relevant information, to further develop the maximum general coverage of the internet and, of course, to rationalise aspects of our legislative systems that deal with these issues. the net economic effect cannot ignore the enormous potential of the full integration of both sides of humanity in the same labour market and other fields.
mr president, colleagues! there are complicated things, and there are very simple things. the issue of the nord stream ii pipeline expansion is, in my view, a very simple one. let's think about drugs and drug addiction. we all know that drug addiction is very dangerous and must be overcome. like drugs, the european union is dependent on imported gas. we already have almost 70% of imports and the trend is to increase even more. who is our biggest supplier of gas? it is the russian export monopoly gazprom. several european companies are currently considering doubling the so-called nord stream gas pipeline - nord stream ii - in this way, together with russia's gazprom. what would that do? it's like a drug addict getting injected with twice the dose. it's a matter of life and death. this is dangerous for europe. we can't go that way. fortunately, as sometimes happens with drugs, there is a cure, and that cure is the course that we have accepted, that the commission has proposed and that we have supported - the so-called energy union. the principles of the energy union make it clear that we must reduce our dependence on imports, we must harness our energy sources and we cannot allow any kind of monopoly on the european market. this single market must be created. nord stream ii is a dangerous drug. commissioner, i urge you to be brave and do everything you can to prevent this project from happening! thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. yesterday, all of europe celebrated the day of the nazi extermination. it is a momentous event in all of human history. in my country, latvia, the day of the victory over nazism is rationally celebrated on may 8th, and, as many families do, on may 9th. just imagine, colleagues, even at this late hour, the squares of riga and other cities in latvia are full of people as people continue to celebrate the victory over nazism. europe was born after the nazi conquest. the european union project is the idea of a europe of solidarity, a europe of fraternity, a europe without borders, and so i believe that today, more than ever, we have a duty to show solidarity with the people who have lived for decades in latvia and estonia with the imperfections of latvia and estonia, and to give them the right to vote for the european parliament. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation aims to transpose the provisions of eu law on subsidies and countervailing measures concluded and codified within the world trade organisation in order to ensure the correct and transparent application of anti-subsidy rules. the regulation sets out the detailed conditions under which the existence of subsidisation is identified, the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties which could be imposed to offset subsidies directly or indirectly granted for any manufacture, production, export or transport of products whose release for free circulation in the european union causes injury and the criteria which would be applicable in calculating the amount of the countervailable subsidies. the regulation itself does not introduce anything new in legal terms, but merely consolidates existing provisions. it was therefore logical to support the new codification.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation aims to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping provisions contained in the text of the general agreement on tariffs and trade adopted in 1994, more specifically its implementing agreement, article 6. the regulation therefore contains detailed provisions, in particular as regards the calculation of the dumping facts, the conduct of the investigation procedure, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures, and the provision of relevant information to the public in the context of anti-dumping investigations. as in the previous vote today, this regulation does not as such bring any new legal provisions, but merely consolidates existing ones. i therefore support the new codification as an integral part of eu law.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the agreement will not only allow eu fishermen to fish legally in the liberian fishing zone, but will also provide a boost to economic relations between the eu and west africa as a whole and will clearly help to combat illegal fishing more effectively, especially tuna. that's why i voted yes. although the fisheries sector accounts for around 12% of liberia's agricultural gdp and only 3% of total gdp, the agreement could undoubtedly also provide at least indirect support for the development of this sector in liberia. it is likely that in a country bordering the atlantic ocean itself, the fisheries sector could play a much greater role than it does at present. i'll back you up.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was concluded in 1989, and since then several successive agreements have taken place. the new agreement will thus have as its primary objective the resolution of existing problems, the continuation of high-quality cooperation, etc. it is regrettable that mauritania has objected to the landing of fish in the canary islands at the port of las palmas, forcing our fleet to land all fish in the port of nouadhibou on its territory. and while the logic of such a decision is understandable in principle, i joined the rapporteur in saying that the commission should address the problem to the joint committee. and since mauritania itself is simply not sufficiently developed in terms of the infrastructure required, well, the need to land at nouadhibou would be quite illogical. and what's more, the ports of gran canaria also offer better conditions. but i'm with you.
in writing. ‒ the republic of korea is one of the most advanced countries in the world, particularly in the development of electronic technology and systems, which is also uniquely relevant for civil global navigation satellite systems, which are used in a wide range of instruments and applications in cars, ships, mobile phones, aircraft, etc. the republic of korea is also a world leader in the production of all these items. given the real benefits that such cooperation could bring to both sides, at least in economic and social terms, it was only logical to join my colleagues in supporting the entry into force of this highly important cooperation agreement.
chairman! as is well known, the cohesion policy is placing greater emphasis than ever before on an integrated and territorial approach to promote economic and territorial cohesion in the 2014-2020 programming period. as you know, two new instruments - community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) - were introduced to achieve this objective. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the eip can be used at subregional level to strengthen synergies between local actors in both the public and private sectors, while the iti helps to implement an integrated territorial strategy to allow for the pooling of financial resources from different priority areas. in total, these two instruments will receive 5% of the total cohesion policy funding, or eur 16 billion, in the current programming period, and it is good that the iti will be used by 20 member states, while the erdf will only be used by 18. thank you.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) is part of the eu's general rules aimed at monitoring economic developments in all member states and in the union as a whole. the qualitative compilation of such information and its subsequent regular dissemination through various sources (e.g. eurostat) is of fundamental importance for policy-makers, ordinary citizens, businesses and foreign partners alike. the amendment of this regulation seeks to achieve two main issues. first, to increase the transparency and level of detail of statistical data, especially in the case of mb, spt, and cti. secondly, by aligning the regulation itself with the treaty of lisbon, which has been in force for some time. given the frequency with which various data and information gaps are discussed, the current amendments are very important and will hopefully achieve their primary objectives as soon as possible.
chairman! mountain regions account for only 30% of the total area of the european union, but are often not given special attention in cohesion policy efforts. given the potential contribution that a specialised community approach can make, i strongly support the adoption of these reports. i joined the call for the commission to start developing a definition of mountain regions that could be used in the context of cohesion policy, with the primary focus of course being on inhabited regions. the logical example is the problem of snow cover in recent years due to the global greenhouse effect, which directly affects both the nature and animals of europe and the area that may be considered alive at a given moment. and, especially in view of the operational effectiveness of the alpine strategy, it is clear that this strategy can also be successful. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the requirements laid down in the amended regulation (eu) no 575/2013 (i.e. the capital requirements regulation) apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. under this regulation, commodity dealers (or investment firms whose principal activity is the provision of investment services or activities related to financial instruments) are exempted from the large exposures requirements and from the own funds requirements. the problem and therefore the reason for the need for amendments is that the existing exemptions were set to expire at the end of 2017. given that a review of the regulation of all active investment firms had already been initiated, there were concerns that the institutions of the profile would not be able to fully transition to the new contractual reality in time and adapt accordingly. in view of the above, it was decided to extend the period of validity of the currently established exemptions, while qualitatively completing the review of the investment firm regime and preparing, adopting and applying the legislation that may result from that review. since the current amendments have at least an indirect positive impact on the stable continuation of the activities of the same energy and commodity market players at community level, it was necessary to support them.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the proposed council regulation will improve the data processing and data protection systems used by europol in its day-to-day work and increase their operational capacity and flexibility. the authority will therefore potentially become much more efficient and secure from an operational point of view once the document enters into force on 1 may 2017. the new regulation will replace the one adopted in 2009 which also led to the creation of europol. apart from the potential to maximise efficiency, the new regulation will, inter alia, enable national parliaments and the relevant committee of the european parliament to monitor europol's work together by setting up a joint parliamentary control group. this is good, it should be supported and - even more so - the role of the commission and parliament in terms of data exchange will be increased, which is also good when it comes to the conclusion of relevant information exchange agreements between europol and the partner structures. thank you.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary, i supported the council's position on the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on a regulation increasing europol's powers to combat terrorism. security issues in the european union have become particularly pressing, and with them the need to increase the powers and rights of eu security authorities in relation to their work in combating terrorism and providing security for eu citizens. the draft law increases europol's powers and ensures that data protection rules are strengthened by involving the european data protection supervisor in data transfers, who will have the right to monitor europol's actions with regard to personal data. this report includes a provision that member states will be obliged to provide europol with the information it needs, and that europol will also be required to report annually to the eu institutions on the information received. i supported this report because i believe that the security of eu citizens must be improved and the work of eu institutions must be completed by giving them clear rules and transparent powers.
chairman! every year, millions of third-country nationals, as we know, come to the european union to study, to do internships, to do research, to do volunteer work, and it's great. the new directive aims to improve the relevant legal framework. in line with the council's proposal, the member states will unequivocally retain both their right in principle to control the entry of foreigners into their territory in general and to require all the necessary documentation in any of the official languages of the union, and that is a good thing. it should also be noted that the council modified the commission's proposal to allow students to work at least 15 hours a week. in the case of researchers, the minimum period of legal residence shall be one year or another term specified in the contract. the maximum period of stay for trainees will be six months, although countries may extend this period based on their own laws. in short, it is a very timely and good document, and of course i voted in favour.
chairman! cohesion policy, as we know, is one of the most important cornerstones of european union policy. and there are countries, including my country, the republic of latvia, where every year a large part of the available resources are simply not used. the difficulties of applying, the excessive bureaucratic burden, the lack of understanding of simple procedures or the general ignorance of the possibilities available actually block the full development of a number of areas. i therefore join the call to the commission and the relevant authorities in the member states themselves to inform potential beneficiaries of the funds' resources as actively as possible about such possibilities and to streamline the whole system for their own part. the simple fact is that in each budgetary period of the european union, each member state is allocated resources which, if not used, can simply be used less. i therefore support this document and consider it to be very timely and important.
chairman! i am not surprised by the commission's proposal. it is always based on the possibilities of trade, including price. over the year, the commission has maintained the principles of solidarity, responsibility, fairness, which are beautiful, in this proposal, but the only real migration measure was a real policy-based eu-turkey agreement. the commission also introduces a fairness mechanism which will also judge the particular asylum seeker who paid a smuggler to get into germany, but this fairness mechanism will send him to latvia. what will this poor man do, sent to latvia? he goes to germany, of course, but then a secondary travel ban will be imposed, which will in turn force the person to be beaten, fingerprinted again, compared and sent back to latvia. and finally, across the board, the european commission has set the price of integration for one migrant at €250,000. this is a lifelong dream for a pensioner in many european countries. not in luxembourg, of course.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the schengen agreement is one of the most important achievements of european integration. the current migrant crisis, however, has severely damaged the possibility of schengen’s further unaltered functioning. every state has the right to promote its security by whatever legal means available, but the introduction of internal border controls within schengen takes place mostly unilaterally, without any serious assessment of the underlining systemic consequences. as a result, should the border controls ever be fully re-established, the eu economy, cooperation and development across many areas shall severely suffer. that, quite frankly, makes the estimated yearly costs of eur 5 to 18 billion a serious understatement. ensuring better protection of the external borders and assisting the member states that suffer the most is absolutely necessary. however, since one of the main reasons for reintroduction of border controls was and still is their thoroughness, revision of internal cross-border security measures is highly warranted. the only one who can fix this situation are the europeans themselves, no deals with rather untrustworthy and unpredictable neighbours will ever do that for us.
chairman! imagine that the bell rings, and two boxers come out onto the pitch. one raises both hands, the other raises one hand, because the other hand is tied behind his back. in this situation, we would all immediately cry out 'this is not fair competition! but, my friends, what do we have in the electricity market today? in the electricity market, in fact, it's precisely what's associated with hydropower. we have different regulations in different countries that apply specifically to this electricity production. the difficulty is that electricity flows freely across national borders, but competition is distorted because the rules are different. so we have different subsidies -- maybe small hydropower plants or large hydropower plants have different subsidies in different countries. we have different permit systems, we have different investment requirements, whether we need fish trails or not, and so on, but electricity flows across borders. it's like a boxer fighting with one arm tied, but the other arm is not tied. so if we want to create a fair and competitive electricity market in europe, we have to create a level playing field for everyone, we have to give the boxers both hands.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. yes, i can also speak and interpret the vote in this atmosphere. it is therefore regrettable that the problems caused by tax avoidance at cross-border level, in particular harmful tax competition, aggressive tax planning, etc., have worsened in recent years. the main transparency problem is that the exchange of country-by-country tax returns between member states is not yet taking place and this change envisages that appropriate rules will be introduced under which there will be a mandatory automatic exchange of information in relation to country-by-country returns, and that is good. the commission will be actively involved in this process, which is also welcome and which i support. and these changes, it should be noted, will take effect as of next year and will cover the amount of income and profit before income tax, savings paid, from accumulated income and taxes respectively. and that's good, and that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ tax policy in the european union is a very important and at the same time complex system, as there are 28 different national tax policies with inherent differences. it is essential that member states continue to retain their existing exclusive national competence in matters of tax legislation and enforcement in the european union. however, there is a need for greater transparency and cooperation between member states in tax rulings and tax planning in the european union. increased transparency and coordination could prevent tax revenues from one member state being unfairly reduced as a result of the tax policies of another member state. i believe that the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters between the competent authorities of the member states will contribute to fair tax competition in the european union. i support greater coordination of tax rulings by eu member states and therefore voted in favour of this advisory report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the right of consumers to know what they are buying in shops and restaurants is a fundamental right, and one of the most fundamental, yet for various reasons it is not always implemented in practice. even if we are talking about what is sold in the european institutions, namely, the food sold. moreover, in addition to the fact that consumers are being deliberately, indirectly effectively deceived, there are also some health concerns. for example, a person may eat one fish but already be allergic to another. the appearance and taste of both species are similar. and incorrect labeling could theoretically lead to a pretty sad outcome. that is why this document is extremely important for all consumers, including in my country, latvia. and here the financial fraud due to mislabelling, thus having a negative impact on taxation, is yet another additional argument why i voted for.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. well, based on the criteria set by the european union, the people's republic of china could be considered a market economy country if, as we know, the five criteria are met. first, the degree of government's influence on the allocation of resources is low. secondly, the absence of distortions in the operation of the privatised economy. third, the implementation of the right to conduct a business with appropriate corporate governance arrangements. fourth, the effective legal framework. and fifth, the existence of a real financial sector. all these criteria taken together make it clear that, although china is undoubtedly a very important partner for the european union, these criteria are not met. and i don't see that china will be granted that status anytime soon. this does not mean that this status will never be granted, but it only means that china must meet these five criteria at a given time.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution on the granting of market economy status to china. there is no denying that china is a very important trading partner of the european union and that the eu must find a way to implement international wto agreements. but i think it's very important to recognize that china still doesn't meet four of the five criteria that define a market economy. the majority of the eu anti-dumping measures are currently directed at china. the eu institutions responsible should ensure that there are legal instruments in place to protect eu producers from anti-dumping in the future, while respecting international obligations. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain the met/it mark. producers are concerned about the economic growth of the sector if eu producers are not provided with legal protection. already, eu manufacturers have to meet high eu requirements in various areas, such as environmental requirements that limit the capacity of industry in the eu, while china does not have such high environmental requirements. the eu steel industry is therefore already in a slightly weaker position and is finding it more difficult to compete. by granting china market economy status, we must not put eu producers at a disadvantage.
chairman! the concept of sustainable development, broadly speaking, means that we both take into account the needs of the current generation and cannot compromise the needs of future generations, for example, by defining economic, social, environmental sustainability. in 2015, for example, in brazil, the world's nations agreed on 17 sustainable development goals and 169 sub-goals. of course, i won't talk about them now, but it is clear that all the sdgs defined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development are important, and we need to put them on our road map and implement them. and, importantly, why i am supporting this very document today is that it is a call to the commission and the european external action service to work actively with member states to develop their sustainable development pathways.
chairman! i believe that, as with another issue today on the traceability of fishery products in the public sector, this document is absolutely important because, again and again, the consumer has a right to know what we have on our plate. it is understandable, by the way, that there is no information on when people buy berries, apples or mushrooms at the market, but it is clear that the consumer is absolutely, at least in my country, latvia, is absolutely sure that he is buying pure products and has a known origin. but in the case of supermarkets, it's clear that's not really possible, given the delivery route. i therefore support the position that the origin must be indicated, whether it is beef, pork or poultry, and i am absolutely of the opinion that there can be no compromise on food. in particular, when it concerns specialised baby foods.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against a resolution which makes the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance mandatory for certain foodstuffs. although this is a welcome initiative in theory, i believe that the resolution also contains hidden risks or underwater stones. there is a concern that by adopting mandatory country of origin or place of provenance for certain food products, we run the risk of making the production process of these products much more expensive, thus seriously undermining the products concerned. the studies show that a large proportion of consumers would indeed support such labelling but would still be against it if it made these products significantly more expensive. i believe that to take such a step would require an in-depth study of the impact on producers and prices, which would consequently affect final consumer prices.
chairman! progressive development and continuous adaptation of parental leave systems this is very important, because at the moment in several countries of the european union, leave is granted only to new mothers, but very rarely to fathers for example, as we know, norway can give fathers up to fourteen weeks, slovenia, iceland twelve, lithuania four, portugal three. in fact, everywhere else, in other countries, including my country, latvia, paternity leave is not more than one or two weeks. this is wrong in my view, for fathers too would like to spend time with their newborn sons and daughters and care for them. i am not calling for discrimination against women, god forbid, of course not, but i am calling for non-discrimination against men, because the unification of this system will bring good results, because this is the future of our european union, these are our children. it is a question of our common existence, and it is a true social democracy.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. human trafficking in general is one of the most contradictory offenses on our planet, and human trafficking can only be compared to the illegal arms trade or drug trafficking, but in this case the problem is basically that no state or institution has complete data on human trafficking in general, because the absolute majority of such cases are simply hushed up and not reported in any way. the identification of victims should therefore be a matter of principle and assistance should be a matter of priority. i repeat - this is a huge priority in my country, latvia, because when we got our independence and when we said in our country, "we are going to the west", several thousand people were already victims of these human trafficking chains. i support this report, of course, because it is extremely important and because it is relevant to the real situation, particularly in my country, latvia.
mr president, if one looks at the actual distribution of currencies around the world, then it is clear that an absolute majority rarely moves across native borders for the purpose of trade, investment or anything else – unless numismatics are involved. therefore, in order to engage in trade relations, national currencies have to get exchanged for something else. for the most part that includes the us dollar, the euro, the japanese yen, pound sterling, the australian dollar, the swiss franc, the chinese yuan and the russian rouble. the same situation applies to foreign currency lending: for example, according to the european central bank, in january 2016 most foreign currency loans within the eu itself were in euros, us dollars or swiss francs. households are usually the primary borrowers, with non-financial institutions coming next and financial institutions third. depending on the country, households and non-financial counterparties (nfcs) may change places. for example, most such loans in bulgaria are by nfcs, while households constitute a majority in poland. interestingly enough, in hungary and the czech republic household loans in foreign currency are virtually non-existent. at the same time in the uk, cyprus, ireland and luxembourg, a majority of foreign currency loans are taken by financial institutions. moreover, swiss francs dominate in foreign currency lending in austria, while in poland and greece their share is around half of all such loans. in other words, depending on each country, financial stability, economic growth and other factors, a choice is made in which currency it is more reasonable to take loans. a covered foreign currency loan, such as a loan denominated in a currency other than that of the borrower’s home country, for which repayment terms are prearranged through the use of a forward currency contract, means that an agreement is in place that obligates parties to exchange given quantities of currencies at a pre-specified exchange rate with a certain future date. however, not all foreign currency loans are covered, and this is precisely where an effective regulatory system is necessary in order to create an environment where, for instance, potential borrowers are fully aware of lending specificities, while banks cannot make unsubstantiated demands or change the lending conditions midway through. the principle risk of foreign currency (forex) lending is the potential volatility of the exchange rate involved. for example, since the bulgarian lev and danish crown are linked to the euro, if a bulgarian or danish national takes a loan in euros, the risk of rapidly increasing loan payments is rather low, so one of the only things a person would have to worry about is the stability of their income. if, however, a russian or ukrainian national decided to take a loan in a foreign currency – for example in us dollars or euros – a couple of years ago, the situation may have turned out differently, as is precisely the case now due to several currencies’ depreciation, including the russian rouble and ukrainian hryvnia, over the last two years. of course, there may be serious issues arising from having a common currency, due to financial crises or internal financial instability taking place in one or more states employing the currency, such as greece for example, where the question of the reinstitution of the greek drachma was seriously considered some time ago. for the most part, however, having a common currency is quite beneficial. in the case of foreign currency loans, this is quite true if the common currency has a stable exchange rate in relation to the one in which the loan was made. a couple of months ago, questions for oral answers were submitted to the commission on the matter of foreign currency loans, or more precisely retrospective conversion of foreign currency loans into local currency loans. the issue mostly concerns eu member states outside the eurozone. the main point of such actions is that many people often buy foreign currency denominated cars or have personal loans, thereby putting hundreds of thousands of households at risk of financial problems in case the exchange rate rapidly changes. even more so, quite a few people also have mortgage loans converted into national currencies in addition to their foreign currency debt. conversions therefore may be necessary for the sake of ensuring national financial stability. one of the main matters at hand is that the above—mentioned retrospective conversions take place at non—market exchange rates, thereby raising the question of them being in line with the general principles of eu law, such as freedom of capital movement and freedom of establishment. as a result, these actions may, for example, contribute to damaging investors’ confidence in the internal market. furthermore, the european court of justice stated two years ago that certain foreign currency transactions relating to loan agreements are not yet covered by eu legislation. since is the commission who is responsible for ensuring that eu law is correctly applied, it is absolutely necessary for it to clearly make its position known on the matter of legal compatibility between the practice of retrospective conversion of foreign—denominated loans and the obligations of member states to communicate to the commission any draft regulation not related to the transposition of adopted eu law or international law. in addition, should the above—mentioned ecj statement indeed be true, it is also highly necessary to extend the respective eu legislative coverage to loan agreements currently omitted.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. when i was a kid -- i was looking around the room -- when we were kids, buying a product meant going to the store, taking out money, giving money back, getting the product, going back home. that's how we all used to shop. of course, the world has changed a lot since then, thanks to technological advances. now, very often -- some of us even more often -- we buy a product not by physically going to a store, which may be close to us, but we either sit down at a computer, take out a tablet, or even use our cell phone and buy a product using the internet. but the problem we have is that even though we think we're right there, picking up and buying something, very often the place where we're buying it is not just next to us, it's not even in our country, it's somewhere else in europe. and the difficulty that we know is that even though technology allows us to do this process -- you could say -- effortlessly, effortlessly, there are certain laws or national regulations that actually discriminate against the buyer based on the country in which they are at the time of purchase. thus, the same product may have different selling prices, including different shipping prices, even though the distance does not justify this. this is what i very much welcome - the commission's commitment to eliminate so-called geo-blocking or discrimination, because if we want this single market, the digital market must also be single, so that it is like going to the next store and buying. it's no longer about the weight of the country we're in and the weight of the product we're buying.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. if we want to reduce poverty in europe, the right remedy is to create new jobs. to create jobs, we need investment. so we have to think about the investment climate if we want to reduce poverty. if we want to help the poor who are unable to participate in the labour market, we must use the social assistance systems of our country, of each member state, and these systems can always be improved and developed. but if we want to reduce energy costs, then the drug is competition. if there is a market with competition in any area - whether it is the gas or electricity market - prices will fall. we have a solution to this, ladies and gentlemen, and we have been implementing it for some time now, under the commission's leadership, in specific legislation. it is to develop, to create a european energy union, whose main objective is to develop a single market for both gas and electricity, because when we develop this market and create the necessary interconnections, and improve or reduce regulation so that trade can also take place across national borders, this competition will be created, which will result in an improvement in the quality of supply, a reduction in import dependency and, most importantly, a reduction in the price of electricity and gas for all consumers.
in writing. the question of the situation in the milk sector has to be seen in the context of the situation on the global market the embargo in russia and the fall in demand in china. as the european council approaches, it is understandable that sanctions against russia will not be lifted or revised and there is no significant increase in demand in china. the eu must therefore consider targeted support for the dairy sector. the situation is dramatic across the eu, but it is critical in latvia. the average purchase price of milk decreased by 33% since the embargo until april 2016. this is one of the largest reductions among eu member states. in april, the price dropped to eur 0,20/kg, while in may it could fall by as much as 37%. the level of the purchase price of milk has long since ceased to cover production costs. all the temporary exceptional aid granted by the eu to milk producers has been paid. in the present situation, i consider that direct financial support to milk producers is a necessary solution to alleviate the increasing loss burden and to prevent the mass bankruptcy of producers. it is important to increase the volume of intervention procurement, to discuss financial instruments and to increase flexibility in the regulation of state aid. i doubt the effectiveness of voluntary production cuts in stabilising the market and see more risks than benefits for producers. i would also add that we must urgently consider support for the poultry and fruit and vegetable sectors, where the situation is becoming increasingly worrying.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. since their introduction seven years ago, bitcoins and other virtual currencies, as well as the underlying technology, have already had a significant impact on global financial markets and various economic sectors. it is therefore clearly time to evaluate qualitatively the actual and future potential and contribution of such innovations and, where appropriate, to develop the principles governing their operation. i support that. but virtual currencies have the potential to significantly reduce the social transaction and operational costs of payments, in particular cross-border transfers of funds. they may also have a significantly positive impact on the speed of implementation of such actions, based on the specificity of the application security architecture. so, ease of use! i need help!
in writing. ‒ this allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund amounts to a total of eur 5 146 800, which is intended to be used for the reintegration of 2132 french workers into the national labour market. they were employed in the field of road and inland waterway transport in 22 french departments in the continental part of the country. the need for the aid arose from the bankruptcy of the company and its subsequent closure. it can be noted that between 2007 and 2013 the bankruptcy rate in the road transport sector increased by a whopping 35% largely due to the financial crisis and its consequences. given the number of people affected and the importance of the sector for the eu and the french economy in particular, it was logical to support the requested disbursement from the egf.
in writing. ‒ this allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund amounts to a total of eur 6,468 million, which is intended to support 557 former greek workers and 543 targeted young people and their reintegration into the labour market. the affected sector is retail trade, while the main reason for the closure of the company was identified as the rapid decline in the purchasing power of the greek population as well as the reduction in lending to both companies and individuals. in view of the situation in recent years, this is unfortunately perfectly understandable. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the greek economy.
in writing. ‒ in april last year, a personal threat was received on the mobile phone of gianluca buonanno, an italian mep. given that, according to the deputy prosecutor of the general court of vercelli, italy, it is partly the case that a high-quality criminal investigation would only be possible after the member's immunity has been waived in order to gain access to his telephone records (even though this is not absolutely necessary), and that the european parliament voted today to adopt such a decision on the basis of the ad cautelam principle, i joined my colleagues and also voted in favour. it is hoped that this case will be investigated as soon as possible and that the guilty will be punished accordingly.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. a few years ago, when the migrant crisis began, sweden received more than 170,000 applications from migrants or refugees entering the country. and last year, that meant that there were already 11,503 applicants for the status per million people in sweden. the highest in the world! not just in scandinavia, not just in the european union, but in the world. and, according to the rules submitted within the european union through council decisions, etc., sweden should receive 1369 and 4358 persons from italy and greece respectively. and the proposal we're discussing today would remove that requirement for one calendar year only. there's been an accident. but given the number of migrants, refugees, who have already entered sweden, in fact, the country has fully fulfilled its obligations.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the transatlantic relationship, or the relationship between the european union and the united states, and the eu and canada, is the most active, and arguably the most financial, economic relationship in the world. for example, the data flow between the eu and the us is about 15 terabits per second, more than any other region in the world combined. in the context of the motion for a resolution, it should also be noted that in 2014, imports of digital services from the european union to the united states accounted for 54% of total bilateral trade in services. in other words, the security of transatlantic data flows should be at the heart of eu-us relations, and this is particularly true of the ttip negotiations. but overall, of course, i support this document and i think it is very necessary for the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the reform of the energy system currently being implemented at union level is generally geared towards making it more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely based on non-exhaustible energy sources. and one of the primary goals for us, therefore, would be to provide our citizens with stable, accessible, efficient, sustainable energy. that's number one. the changes to be implemented also mean the possibility for people to produce their own energy as needed, especially in sparsely populated areas, and the freedom to choose the appropriate service providers. finally, in my view, this should actually lead to the abolition of energy monopolies, which in some member states are still far from being implemented. and of course, i support that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. of the european population, 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men are living in poverty. this means that there are not just more women in absolute numbers. they are much more, i would say, predisposed to poverty and social exclusion than men. this applies to virtually all social groups, all ages, all family structures, etc. in this context, it is also worth mentioning the regrettable fact that women find it much more difficult to achieve both their personal and professional lives at the same time, for various reasons. and i agree with the call on the commission to develop as soon as possible a comprehensive, global legislative initiative aimed at directly addressing the needs of mothers and fathers for different types of leave. stereotypically or not, the role of the dominant provider must be paralleled by the role of the full-fledged parent.
in writing. ‒ poverty is a problem that must be addressed by improving the socioeconomic situation in the member states and in the european union as a whole. however, in voting on this particular report, i abstained because i believe that the report included requirements that restrict the member states' right to decide on these important issues themselves. every member state of the european union faces the problem of poverty, but the situation is specific to each member state and i believe that this problem cannot be solved by a 'one size fits all' set of measures. this requirement is contrary to my views and is too specific to be dealt with in the same way across the european union. i believe that each member state should have the right to retain national competence in dealing with this problem.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. it is worth noting that for more than 20 years, the reform of the common market has given rise to a single market in which tariff barriers have been successfully removed. unfortunately, non-tariff barriers continue to have a significant impact on trade and the free movement of goods. while it is perfectly understandable that there will always be some bureaucratic burdens, the reduction of bureaucracy, which is one of the main objectives, must also be achieved in the digital market. and the quality of crossborder services is worth noting, since our member states still have very different systems in this respect. this often results in a situation where, say, a recorded letter sent physically by post sometimes arrives faster than one sent electronically.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the largest and richest markets in the world, but there are areas that are unfortunately not yet fully unified, and member states have very different practices on a number of issues. i am in favour of the single market in the european union, but i abstained in the final vote on this report because i think it contains too many details and requirements which could be interpreted too broadly. this would in reality directly distort the single market. one of the most visible examples is the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place of work' embedded in the report. in my view, such a principle is very dangerous and would effectively eliminate any competition. maintaining competition in the european union's single market is crucial, as competition is one of the driving forces behind growth.
in writing. ‒ the single market has already been experiencing a high level of unemployment this year, with 22 million europeans of economically active age in absolute terms last year. while much has been achieved in recent years, in particular thanks to the measures taken to overcome the effects of the financial crisis, the real potential of the single market has not yet been realised. the need to work more actively towards their fuller implementation is therefore quite logical and important. reducing bureaucracy is one of the main objectives to be achieved. the abolition or qualitative modernisation of legislation that is genuinely redundant or obsolete must become the cornerstone of this task, which applies both at the transnational and national levels of government for example, in the regulation of vat policy. the role of smes and the further digitisation and innovation of the economy are also important objectives, as is the fight against counterfeiting and the protection of consumer interests, which in the modern era is particularly relevant in the digital environment (e.g. online shopping). the need to improve the quality of crossborder services is also of particular importance, since our member states still have very different systems in this respect. it is also necessary to facilitate cross-border remote work and to deal with unjustified geo-blocking, for example when a youtube video is available in one member state but no longer available in another. in a genuine single market, this is neither acceptable nor logical.
chairman! first of all, i would like to thank the commission for what the commission is doing in terms of aids prevention, and we are doing a lot here in the european union. we have the best medicine in europe, the most advanced technology. we know how we can win this battle. but sadly, the figures show that the highest percentage of those who are sick is among young people. those are terrible numbers. i can tell you this when i talk about my country, latvia, because the biggest percentage increase here is because young people use drugs - first legal drugs, so-called spaisus, and then they use drugs intravenously, which only increases the percentage of aids patients. of course, thanks to the world health organization, for example, in latvia, three great centres have been opened in riga, liepāja and daugavpils, but unfortunately these preventive measures are not available to people in rural areas. and yet, it should be noted that the situation in my country and in the countries of eastern europe is better than it was in the early 1990s after the collapse of the ussr. and yet, speaking globally, it is clear that 90 percent of the aids patients, including children, are in sub-saharan africa (south africa, namibia, botswana), and it should be noted that we must fight against so-called religious cults when sex with an innocent youth is considered [a misconduct] which is also the cause of the spread of aids.
mr president, as many colleagues mentioned, today around 1.5 billion people in the world are living in poverty with severe deprivation in health, education and living standards. most of them are women. policy coherence for development is an important part of the 2030 agenda and should indeed be made an integral part of the eu’s foreign policy, as well as a legally binding set of principles for our member states to follow. we know that the eu is a major – and of course the largest – provider of humanitarian financial expert assistance to the developing countries, but the current migration crisis, and many more like it in other regions, have severely worsened the already drastic situation for hundreds of millions of people. environmental issues such as desertification only make things worse. the intensification of assistance towards guaranteeing food security and the development of the private sector in developing countries, as well as introducing binding rules, will help us.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the belarusian nuclear power station was first envisaged backed in the 1980s. however, due to the chernobyl disaster in 1986 these plans were halted until less than a decade ago. construction began in 2013 and should cost around usd 10 billion. it must be pointed out that the reactor employed, a water-water energetic reactor, is the same as is currently planned for use in the hanhikivi nuclear power plant in finland. the fears of the international community, especially lithuania, are understandable. belarus has never had a nuclear power plant on its territory, thus raising fears of inability to operate it properly. therefore, in order to alleviate these concerns, belarus should allow for a series of necessary stress tests performed under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency, as well as a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, particularly on the matter of drinking-water sources shared with lithuania. with eu sanctions lifted, relations between the eu and belarus are once again moving forward. i believe, therefore, that a solution to the current issues around the ostrovets nuclear power plant will be found soon, since, in the field of nuclear energy, there can be no other way but multilateral cooperation between all parties involved, directly or indirectly, be that belarus, lithuania, the eu, the russian federation, whose specialists are building the plant, or any other international institution concerned. i want to add that nuclear energy is also environmentally friendly, and with proper maintenance, nuclear plants can last for decades on end.
madam president, for millennia rural areas have acted as the main providers of food and numerous other agriculture-related resources. they also accounted for the major proportion of population and demographic growth. over the years, however, with the advent of the industrial revolution, cities started to attract more and more people from across the country, thereby eventually leading to depopulation of rural areas. nowadays in most eu member states, rural dwellers account for much less than half of the population. whilst these tendencies may have a positive effect on job creation, education, housing or decreasing transportation costs due to usually permanent resettlement from their native places, rural areas essentially lose their future in every sense. it also harms productivity, especially in agriculture and traditional craftsmanship. moreover, whole cultural strata become endangered. central and particularly eastern european member states are the ones suffering most from this trend, even more so after 2004.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the world health organisation's general convention on tobacco control was endorsed on behalf of the community by council decision 2004/513/ec. the protocol to combat illicit trade in tobacco products was signed on 20 december 2013. the aim of today's vote was to approve the protocol at union level, subject to certain exceptions. the protocol is an important contribution to international efforts to eradicate illicit trade in tobacco products in all its forms and thus to combat the avoidance of excise duties and customs duties. given the importance of the problem and the need to promote public health protection, including in the latgale region of the republic of latvia, where this phenomenon is quite widespread, it was logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote was to support the adoption of a new version of the text of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe on the approval of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts. the agreement itself was concluded in 1958, when the industry in question was entering what was perhaps its most active phase of development in the post-war years. the amendments to the revised version 3 will allow for more active promotion of international regulatory cooperation, thus promoting a more transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring a higher level of protection in the field of health and safety. it is worth noting that the existing system and its modernisation efforts also help to reduce the cost of design, production and certification, as well as to avoid administrative duplication of procedures when it comes to bilateral trade agreements in the field under consideration. given the importance of the wheeled vehicle industry to the union's economy, the environment and the health and well-being of its citizens, as well as to several other aspects of our daily lives, it was logical and also necessary to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the vote was to support the conclusion of an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union a few years ago. in other words, given the specific nature of the approval of these additional protocols and the absence of any other amendments, it was logical to vote in favour. i would add that it is almost three years since croatia joined the european union, but there are still many agreements which have not been amended in the light of the community's territorial changes. it is hoped that they will all be adequately modernised in the near future to enable croatia to be fully involved in the functioning of the matters covered by these agreements.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerned a proposal for a council regulation to enable the 18 member states of the european union to establish a platform for closer cooperation in the field of international matrimonial property relations. the purpose of enhanced cooperation shall be to develop judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border implications, based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments, and to ensure consistency between the rules applicable in the member states in relation to conflicts of law in those matters. given the increasing number of international couples registered in the union each year, such a legal framework based on common principles is essential. it is, however, of fundamental importance that nationals of the 10 member states who chose not to participate in that partnership should not find themselves in a legally restricted position in the case of further registration of such a type of couple or in the case of an existing couple.
in writing. ‒ like another vote today, this one concerned the protocol to the who general convention on illicit trade in tobacco products. unlike the first vote, this one was specifically about judicial cooperation in criminal matters, i.e. the community's area of freedom, security and justice. the first vote covered all other forms of cooperation. as noted earlier, this protocol is an important contribution to international efforts to eradicate illicit trade in tobacco products, thus contributing to the fight against the evasion of excise duties and customs duties. it was therefore logical, in view of the positive aspects of such closer cooperation, to vote for the conclusion of the said protocol.
in writing. ‒ as is known, following the recent financial crisis, directive 2014/65/eu and regulation (eu) 600/2014 were adopted, which extended the scope of application to securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the new rules are therefore intended to strengthen and replace the current but entirely obsolete directive 2004/39/ec. given the structural complexity of the new legislative package, especially in terms of further implementation, a period of 30 months was consistently envisaged for its implementation between its adoption and its entry into force, which is somewhat different from the normal period of 18 to 24 months. in other words, according to today's vote, the new rules will enter into force on 2 january 2017 instead of 3 july this year. as the primary objective of the markets in financial instruments directive is to promote the stability and transparency of eu financial markets and to prevent the emergence of potential crises, it was logical to vote in favour of the commission's amended proposal.
in writing. ‒ this vote amended three regulations (on markets in financial instruments no 600/2014, on market abuse no 596/2014 and on improving securities settlement in the european union and for central securities depositories no 909/2014). the amendments initially included new [future] dates by which the new legislative acts would enter into force. in the light of the comments and comments made in this and the previous report, i agree that a longer period of time is indeed necessary for the entry into force of the updated regulation in order to allow all the parties concerned to fully adapt to the new legislation. therefore, recalling in particular the potential consequences of market abuse and the examples that are fresh in my mind in europe and other parts of the world, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors acts as an independent external auditor, regularly auditing the management of the union budget by the european commission and consistently providing an overall view of the existing financial situation together with recommendations for improvement. although it has no legal authority, the role of the court of auditors in financial control is undeniable. this means that the european court of auditors, with 28 members one from each eu member state , is staffed by the most qualified financial professionals, with a long record of service in their home country, and that its primary task is in fact to monitor the union's finances in a way that safeguards the interests of our citizens, that is, taxpayers . having considered and analyzed mr. shajius' candidacy and having given the utmost consideration to his professional experience and a number of other factors, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ promoting sustainable development is one of the main policy areas of the european union, which is feasible at virtually all levels of its functioning. so, development policy coherence, which includes things like migration policy, trade and finance, private sector development, food security, climate change, security and a number of other things, is very important. i therefore welcome the adoption of the interim report. since effective development policy coherence is not really possible without efforts to correlate with external realities and thus with external partners, it is very welcome that the role of the union delegations in other parts of the world has increased considerably, especially in terms of information. given the importance of development policy for the union's internal and external actions, and the fact that the eu is the world's largest financial donor to developing countries, i support making development policy coherence a legally binding aspect of the policies pursued by the eu and its member states.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn) in africa was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 with the aim of enhancing the efficiency of private investment in agriculture and thus improving food security and nutrition in black africa. in particular, the european union is responsible for coordinating the efforts being implemented in côte d'ivoire and malawi. the general idea of nafsn is to implement an agricultural development model in african conditions that includes monoculture, mechanization, biotechnology, reliance on fertilisers, long distribution routes and the cultivation of exported products. the eradication of widespread family poverty is of particular importance in this context, as family farmers and small farms provide more than 60% of employment in this region. in order to achieve the implementation of such a model, particular attention is paid to policy aspects to be implemented such as governance and accountability, regulation of accountability, promotion of sustainable family farming, access to land and security of property rights, regulation of seed material, promotion of gender equality and also financing of investments in african agriculture. africa is considered to have a high development potential, particularly in the agricultural sector. it would therefore be essential to provide the necessary support to the countries of the continent to enable them to pursue these fundamental development efforts on their own, already relying on their own strengths and those of their regional partners. the main threat to the naps is, and will probably continue to be, pollution itself. hopefully, this problem will be solved soon.
in writing. ‒ international accounting standards are a fundamental part of the eu's financial services regulatory and supervisory framework. since 2005, eu listed companies have had to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. the well-known problem, however, is that these rules have for the most part been in place for more than a decade and thus survived the recent financial crisis , but the much-needed wide-ranging changes in legislation to make these standards more effective have not yet been initiated. the current system of accounting standards is too complex and i agree that it needs to be rationalised, with particular attention to informing users which includes investors, companies and ordinary community residents . it is noteworthy that the full or partial implementation of international accounting standards has taken place in 116 jurisdictions, which makes streamlining efforts very difficult. the introduction of common or at least closely related international accounting standards is a good thing, but not in itself, but as an effective tool to prevent the same financial crises. of course, this is only one of the possible means of combating the factors that caused the crisis, which must be closely coordinated with other means, firstly, the respective efforts of each particular national government.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations, as well as civilian missions, have long been an integral part of the european union's policy towards african countries, especially during the last decade. i therefore agree that it is precisely the combination of diplomacy and security and development efforts that is the most effective option for the eu policy in question. it is important to note that given the limitations of the participation of eu military forces (e.g. in campaigns against the same terrorists), it is of paramount importance to cooperate and coordinate fully with the legitimate governments of the countries of the region and the african union in order to effectively combat these hostile elements. the real strength of the european union, however, is not in peace support operations as such, but in its other efforts to prevent conflict, such as the exchange of expertise, the implementation of reforms, humanitarian aid, etc. of course, the effectiveness of the eu and its partners' action in the waters of the horn of africa should not be overlooked, and we hope that the same will soon be done in the waters of the gulf of guinea, in cooperation with the regional actors. it is also important to note that the vast majority of our member states are also members of nato. consequently, in developing eu cooperation with the un and the african union, the nato factor, without whose indirect support virtually no eu peace support operation abroad is possible, must also be taken into account in a purely military sense (especially in the provision of equipment).
in writing. ‒ i support the ep resolution calling on the european commission to propose a framework regulation at eu level against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain to ensure fair income for farmers and a wide choice for consumers. the law should ensure fair and transparent relations between food producers, suppliers and distributors. more needs to be done to improve the relationship between suppliers and supermarkets, particularly in terms of reducing the so-called fear factor. farmers and smes are particularly vulnerable to unfair trading practices late payments, limited market access, sudden contract breaks, etc. the results of voluntary and self-regulatory systems have so far been 'limited' by the lack of adequate implementation options, the under-representation of farmers, conflicts of interest and the failure of dispute resolution mechanisms to address supplier risk factors.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices in themselves have a very negative impact on the relevant aspects of the european union's operations, including, of course, the interests of consumers and also the capacity of smaller market players to develop effectively and participate in the functioning of the market. such practices in the food supply sector, on the other hand, have the potential to endanger the health of the population, which is unacceptable in itself. some 15 years ago in my country - latvia - almost any moderately large city could find a local or regional food company, most of which had only a few or one store. while there is, of course, such a thing as free competition and different market conditions, nowadays the absolute majority of food in latvia is sold in supermarkets or markets of various sizes. without offending anyone in any way, i simply want to emphasise that smaller market players are always the weakest and most vulnerable, especially in the context of unfair trading practices. regulations aimed at combating unfair trading practices operate more or less effectively in individual member states, but there is no single system at union level. i therefore joined the call to the commission to initiate the development of such a system as soon as possible. among other benefits, it could also make a significant contribution to the development of the single market by involving smaller players more actively in the market, under conditions that would maximise the quality of the fight against such unfair practices.
in writing. a number of statistical data and market analysis indicate that unfair trading practices have increased in recent years and are particularly prevalent at certain stages of the supply chain. at least 80% of producers and 96% of the food supply chain have acknowledged being affected by unfair trading. unfair trading practices are particularly harmful to small food producers, including farmers, who are often subject to disproportionate and unworkable contractual terms imposed by large companies. in addition, attention must also be paid to the so-called fear factor, where the weaker party often does not take any legal action and accepts the unfair practice despite the damage, for fear that the stronger party will terminate the trade relationship. it is estimated that suppliers, usually farmers, lose between €30 and €40 billion a year in the eu as a result of unfair trading practices. the ability to obtain differently favourable conditions in a trading relationship is a perfectly natural and widespread phenomenon, but the abuse of a stronger market position is already considered abnormal relations between traders and often leads to the development of unfair trading practices. methods based on voluntary refusal to engage in unfair practices contribute to reducing this problem, but are not sufficient to solve it completely, and consequently consistent measures are needed to eliminate unfair trading practices completely and to guarantee the proper functioning of the market and fair and transparent relations between all actors in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ sustainable agricultural development is, in fact, a necessity for the successful existence of any state (except perhaps the vatican). the development of new technologies, investment in innovation, mutual cooperation, exchange of experience, promotion of organic farming and much more form a set of issues that must also be clearly promoted within the eu. of course, particular attention should be paid to the policy on the use of genetically modified organisms in order to avoid any distortion of the market and any risk to the interests and health of consumers. the same applies to the use of chemicals. agree on the need to promote the development of more active agricultural gene banks, the protection and spread of indigenous species, and the promotion of seedlings with a view to making agriculture more profitable. from a governance perspective, it is essential to create a regulatory environment more favourable to innovation and to ensure that union rules do not act as a barrier to innovation. in parallel, more active support for small farmers and businesses needs to be provided at different levels. the same applies to the reduction of administrative burden. it is worth noting that under the framework programme 'outlook 2020' some eur 80 billion is available for research and innovation. a significant proportion of these resources should go directly to the development of the agricultural sector. the key objective is also to provide the necessary skills and to attract knowledge and people who would like to work in the sector.
in writing. ‒ with the world's population demand for food growing much faster than the area of arable land (by only 4.3% by 2050), fostering innovation in agriculture is not simply a necessity but a matter of survival. in parallel with innovation, the competitiveness of eu farmers in relation to other world-class players must be improved. labour productivity, the development of information and communication technologies, the dissemination of the necessary information and data, the promotion of precision agriculture (including drones with the aim of exploiting every centimetre of arable land), and innovation in livestock farming are the aspects of the future management of european agriculture that need to be promoted most actively. in parallel, maximum attention should be paid to issues such as biodiversity conservation, food waste reduction, soil degradation levelling, climate change and efforts to promote cross-sectoral synergies. within the eu, agriculture provides jobs for 25 million people, and these are the only people who work directly with the land. there are even more workers in related industries. in other words, the effective development of agriculture in the member states of the union is not only a matter of economic importance but also a social one, the answer to which is at least partly to be found in the policy of encouraging rational innovation.
the european commission is returning to proven methods, as it did in previous migration crises from morocco to the spanish coast, from libya to the italian coast 15 years ago. or, to pay for migrants to stay outside the european union. ms mogherini also mentioned that the narrative had changed, that the migration crisis was not just a european union issue but a global one. that's right! i think it's also right that instead of aid to north africa, we're giving investment. but the european union's own narrative on migration has also changed significantly. from what we have heard until very recently, all migrants must be guaranteed a place in the european union. that they will all work in the european union economy and even bring unemployed young people from the european union into employment, and that the main - the most important - thing is to distribute all asylum seekers among the member states. and so, many of these same countries are coming together. looking ahead, the main risk remains. criminal activity will not drive out this lucrative and secure business of migration. and it's possible that it's going to move to these camps and projects in north africa or the middle east.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted to set up a committee of inquiry to look into possible irregularities in the so-called 'panama papers' scandal. i believe that we must be firm and uncompromising in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering schemes. the panama scandal proves that this fight must be global. i believe that there is a need for greater transparency with regard to offshore zones and companies incorporated therein. this would help to combat money laundering and tax evasion. the european parliament expresses by this decision its clear willingness to act to put an end to such practices.
in writing. ‒ in the light of recent scandals, firstly luxleaks and the 'panama papers', i fully agree that it is clearly time to set up a committee of inquiry within the european parliament, whose members will examine in detail both the specifics of the aforementioned scandal and any other possible irregularities and administrative errors in the application of union law in relation to the legalization of illicitly acquired funds, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i believe that this committee of inquiry will also be a great complement to the existing taxe2 committee, allowing much more effective consideration of issues that are often similar. it is hoped that the committee will produce a report within the next 12 months which will enable a much wider range of measures to be properly implemented in relation to these types of illegal transactions and offences.
in writing. ‒ the eu-palau agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and palau citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of travellers (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. relations between the eu and palau have been strengthened since the second accession in 2000 to the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. palau is a highly developed democratic republic with an absolutely predominant (86%) service sector in the economy. in the context of the agreement, it is worth noting that the trust in palau visa applicants is high and the rejection rate of visa applications is low. there were no illegal immigrants or asylum seekers from palau in the european union in the same year 2014. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kingdom of tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and citizens of the kingdom of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of travellers (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the kingdom of tonga's economy is based on 60% of the services sector and about 20% of agriculture, especially crab farming and tuna fishing. it is worth noting that, from a geographical point of view, the kingdom of tonga has significant capacity for wind power generation. since the democratic elections in 2010, relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga have experienced a gradual improvement. the kingdom of tonga does not pose any threat to the european union in the area of illegal migration or in the area of security and public order. the primary migration flows are oriented towards australia, new zealand and the usa. in 2014, the eu recorded the arrest of five tongan nationals staying illegally, issued five entry refusals at the union border and, finally, 10 return decisions. in view of the above and the prospects for the further development of relations with both the kingdom of tonga and the other countries of the region, it was logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and colombian citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of travellers (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the agreement reached can be seen as a positive stimulus for further development of relations between the two sides in the economic, cultural and political fields, as well as - which is of fundamental importance - as a factor that will help to combat organised crime more effectively. it is worth noting that the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner, while the number of tourists from both sides is growing rapidly every year. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the status of the third-country national concerned. the agreement also includes a joint declaration on cooperation in the field of illegal migration. in view of the above and the future prospects for the development of eu-colombia relations, particularly in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, it was only logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ under the it agreement, each of its parties (currently 82) abolishes customs duties on all it products covered by it (computers, telephones, as well as raw materials, components and equipment for the production of it goods) and undertakes to set them at zero under the most-favoured-nation regime. last year, an additional list was agreed, including 201 it products. the trade value of these products is approximately usd 1,3 trillion, corresponding to approximately 10% of global trade. in the case of the european union, the eu exports eur 189 billion of products from this additional list, and this figure is expected to increase significantly after the reduction of customs duties. in view of the above and the other benefits that the union could derive from the expansion of trade in information technology products, it was only logical to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pyrolidinopentiophenone, or simply α-pvp, is a synthetic stimulant of the cathinone class developed in the 1960s and still often marketed as a 'designer drug'. this can cause a condition called ' panic delirium', which includes hyperstimulation, paranoia and also hallucinations. while in some countries this substance is controlled or even partially legal, in eu member states such as estonia, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, lithuania, poland, romania, slovenia, sweden, the united kingdom and the czech republic it is completely banned. today's vote was aimed at applying control measures to the distribution of α-pvp in the union. although the abovementioned member states already have much stricter rules in this respect, it was logical to support the draft council decision to provide for uniform rules throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances was concluded in 1996. the ratification of the 2010 protocol under discussion today would, on the other hand, allow the principles of the 1982 un convention on the law of the sea, which focus on the implementation of liability and compensation for damage caused by spills of such substances in world waters, to be fully reflected. it is a pity that this ratification is only now taking place. it is true that there has not been a major environmental and economic recovery in europe since the prestige oil tanker disaster off the coast of galicia in 2002, but given the fundamental importance of the issue, it certainly should have been achieved much earlier. in other words, i voted unanimously to ratify the protocol. i very much hope that this protocol will enter into force as soon as possible in the four years that have elapsed since its ratification at ep level.
in writing. ‒ unlike another vote today on the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on dangerous and noxious substances, this vote was specifically about the aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. active transnational cooperation is essential to tackle such issues, as pollution often occurs in several countries and requires effective cooperation. in view of the importance of the matter referred to above and considered, i voted unanimously in favour.
chairman! i would like to say that the purpose of the vote was to support the conclusion of a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines, to take account of croatia's accession to the union in 2013. i would add that it is almost three years since croatia joined the european union, but there are still many agreements, many international documents, which have not been amended for the time being, in view of the territorial changes in the community. and of course we hope that in the near future everything will be properly modernised so that it will be possible to involve croatia fully in the implementation of the issues covered by these agreements, because croatia is our member state, our member of the european family of states, and of course i voted in favour.
chairman! it must be said that the relations between the european union and the philippines have been developing quite actively for some ten years, for the last ten years. they have experienced a particular boom in recent years, firstly in trade and linguistics, and a certain cultural and religious affinity is one of the primary factors that facilitates our convergence. in addition, around one million filipinos currently reside in the european union in various countries, providing a further impetus for the further development of relations. given the existing future potential of the eu-philippines partnership, i of course wholeheartedly support this document and believe that the eu-philippines relations have a very bright future.
chairman! over the past 40 years, the european union has provided the philippines with some eur 1 billion in aid to fight poverty and raise living standards. this is particularly true for the poorest sections of society. in particular, the eu budget allocated eur 325 million for the years 2014-2020 and, compared to a further eur 130 million for the years 2007-2013, is already providing a significant amount of assistance. and the two primary areas in which the european union and its member states are providing support are the rule of law and also inclusive growth through sustainable energy policies and job creation. all these issues are also of relevance to the european union. the european union has sometimes been quite successful in combating poverty on its own territory, and we are therefore happy to share our experience with our filipino friends.
chairman! a few years ago, the revolution that took place in tunisia initiated a number of reforms. and the aim of these reforms was to modernise the country's legislative system, the economy, the social sphere and other spheres. since, in the context of the ongoing instability, it is not possible to implement all of them due to other factors, it was decided to provide support to tunisia from the european union once again. this time it is eur 500 million in the form of medium-term loans on the financial markets on sufficiently favourable terms. a few months ago, another type of aid was also accepted in the form of trade facilitations for olive oil, and it was only logical, given tunisia's very important position in the mediterranean and north africa region and the specific nature of its relationship with the european union, to vote in favour today.
chairman! i have to say that tax avoidance is one of the primary detriments, i would say, of the development of an efficient economy and other spheres. for example, the aggressive tax planning of multinational corporations costs the national budget between $100 billion and $240 billion a year, but that's a figure in u.s. dollars. and that's between four and ten percent of the total income tax collected worldwide. it is clear that, as with vat itself, vat, where there is a uniform minimum, will remain at the national level for the rest of the tax rates ... (the president cut off the speaker.) i said that there is a minimum for vat, but there is no such minimum for other taxes, and that it therefore remains the responsibility of the member states. as this is not at union level, a much more coordinated set of policies and efforts is essential to develop a common strategy for other taxes, so that tax avoidance is not possible. i therefore support this directive.
in writing. ‒ the european union's single market is one of the greatest benefits of the european union and the schengen area. each eu member state benefits from the functioning of the single market, but it is important that its functioning is based on fair and uniform principles, including fair competition in the market. in this respect, the eu's tax policy and the member states' good practices in this regard are of great importance. there are 28 different national tax policies in the european union, with their inherent differences, and it is important that the eu member states continue to maintain their current exclusive national competence in tax law and enforcement. however, ways must be found and more coordinated eu legislation must be developed to reduce the possibility for member states to exploit uncertainties and to prevent these differences in national legislation from distorting competition and the functioning of the single market, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal in the ep plenary.
in writing. ‒ i believe the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning have to be high on the political agenda. i agree that better standards need to be established and certain loopholes need to be closed so as to make sure that corporate taxpayers operating businesses in several countries do not take advantage of disparities and shortcomings in order to reduce their tax bills. nevertheless, i could not support the parliament report ‘rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market’ and, going along with the ecr group’s position, abstained in the vote. this is because the report seeks to establish a number of rules and practices that may go against its very aim, as well as risk distorting the smooth functioning of the single market. there is also the question of proportionality and the respect of the member states’ sovereignty. to summarise, i believe that the report in its current form, albeit containing some useful measures, is not up to the task of effectively tackling the problem of tax avoidance.
chairman! it must be said that it is clear that the fight against terrorism cannot be won and that terrorists cannot be fought by democratic methods alone, and it is clear that sometimes very active, even aggressive action must be taken by special services to punish terrorists, as they say. but on the other hand, it is a great pity that there are prisons where people are tortured within the european union, and i joined the call for lithuania, romania and poland to provide transparent, detailed and effective criminal investigations into the secret detention facilities of the central investigation directorate. the same applies to the other cases of clandestine contacts and cooperation, and i naturally voted in favour of this. it is a very necessary and timely document, and in principle such things generally undermine transatlantic cooperation between the united states of america and the european union, and i repeat that i voted in favour of it.
chairman! with the rapid technological advances of the early 21st century, space is no longer an option for safety and security. and it must be said that at present, in the case of the european union and its member states, space is mainly used for the development of telecommunications and space programmes. in no way calling for the initiation of space weaponry or anything like that, i did however join the idea that there is an urgent need to evaluate and further develop the other possibilities that the territories beyond our home planet potentially offer. i must say that the fight against terrorism, the gradual cleansing of the orbital space, the further development of the galileo and copernicus programmes, innovation, science, technology - all these also contribute to our development here in the european union, and of course i could not help but support this report by my colleague, mr zdrajewski.
chairman! the european union's technological base in the field of science in general is one of the most advanced in the world, and this of course also applies to the space sphere. perhaps only countries such as the united states, russia, china, india and japan currently have more or equivalent space capacity to the european union. but at the same time, i wholeheartedly support the commission's call to come forward as soon as possible with a comprehensive, ambitious and far-sighted strategy, which unfortunately does not exist at the moment and which could help the european union in the short and long term to maintain its leading position in the relevant global markets in the field of space technology. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
chairman! as one of the co-authors of the resolution in my political group, i have to say that after the death of hugo chavez in 2013 and the coming to power of nicolas maduro after the presidential elections, the general situation in venezuela cannot be described as stable. in particular, the recent attempts by the executive to fully control all other organs - i mentioned the state administration, the persecution of the opposition, together with the aforementioned low oil prices that affect the venezuelan economy - all this is strongly destabilizing the situation in the country. i voted for this resolution, of course, but i could not support the amendments tabled by my communist colleague from the gue group, despite the seeds of sanity in this text. i thought they were full of populism. but of course, together with my political group, i voted in favour.
chairman! there is no doubt that we all need to carry out scientific assessments of substances that have the potential to cause endocrine disruption. but given the fundamental impact of glands in the body on any human health, even life, such assessments are important. that's what i'm thinking, nobody in this room is talking about. however, in the present case, not only did the commission not have and does not have the power to initiate scientific assessments, but the deadline laid down in regulation no 1107/2009 for the adoption of the relevant scientific criteria, which are then used to determine whether or not active substances and biocidal products have such a detrimental effect, was not respected. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken a decision to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of the product concerned originating in the prc. i joined my colleagues in calling on the commission to reassess the situation.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported a european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's decision to allow the cultivation of genetically modified maize in the eu. the european commission should come up with better proposals for authorisation procedures and, through studies, promote more efficient and fairer taxes on genetically modified products and authorisations to place such products on the market. the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos. the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
in writing. ‒ this objection relates to the commission's wish to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 developed by syngenta france sas as a food, food ingredient and feed ingredient. one of the reasons why the european parliament voted against was that the maize mon-øøø21-9 described in that application produces the protein mepsps, which confers resistance to glyphosate herbicides, and that on 20 march 2015 glyphosate was classified as a possible human carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer. in view of the above, and also of the fact that the commission proposal is not in line with union law, in particular regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the parliament and of the council, the amendments to which, following the commission proposal, parliament refused to approve in october 2015, it was not possible to vote on the commission proposal again, and therefore i voted for the ep's rejection decision.
in writing. i have always advocated that latvia and the european union as a whole should be free of genetically modified organisms (gmos). we cannot allow the health of our citizens to be jeopardised in the name of economic interests. it is regrettable that this is the only time that the european commission, contrary to the member states, has given the green light to the placing on the market of new gmo products, using the powers conferred on it by law. gm maize is resistant to glyphosate, which is classified as a possible human carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer, which specialises in cancer research. this time, the ec not only ignored national concerns about the harmfulness of gmos, but also ignored studies by the world health organization agency on glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. in the light of the studies carried out by the world health organisation agency on glyphosate and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted to repeal the commission decision authorising the placing on the market of this gmo maize. furthermore, i believe that the existing legislative procedure should be amended to give greater decision-making powers to both the european parliament and the member states when authorising the placing on the market of new gmo food and feed products, thus ensuring more effective democratic control and respect for the public interest.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). the european commission should come forward with better proposals for authorisation procedures and, through studies, promote more efficient and fairer rates for genetically modified products and authorisations to place such products on the market. the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos. the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec, the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment is not permitted without a comprehensive analysis of the potential consequences. the problem in this case is that the genetically modified iron involved in the vote has the surb (also) gene, which confers tolerance to sulfonylureas. sulphonylureas, on the other hand, are a widely used second choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and their use is associated with, among other things, a higher risk of cardiovascular problems compared to other diabetes medicines. since the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants would promote the use of these diabetes medicines as herbicides worldwide, it is simply not acceptable to place on the market this type of gmo which would lead to the use of the medicines for other purposes not related to public health and would potentially have a very detrimental impact on the world's ecosystems, in particular drinking water and biodiversity.
in writing. it is regrettable that this is the only time that the european commission, contrary to the member states, has given the green light to a new gmo product, using its legislative powers. although the commission's authorisation covers only the import, distribution and retail of gmo grapes for purely decorative purposes, there are serious concerns that the placing of gmo grapes on the market will not only endanger the environment and human health, but also have a detrimental impact on biodiversity and chemically contaminate drinking water. it is recognised that, although gmos would not have enhanced survival properties if released into the environment by seeds, pollen or rooted plants, they would still retain resistance to certain herbicides which are highly toxic to plants and animals even at very low doses. the use of such herbicides can have a corrosive effect on the productivity of other crops and on the structure of the natural plant community and the wild food chain. it is also not possible to exclude the spread of gm plants in the environment, for example in gardens, by grazing or composting. in view of the potential risks to the environment and human health and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted for the repeal of the commission decision authorising the placing on the market of these gmos. furthermore, i believe that the existing legislative procedure should be amended to give greater decision-making powers to both the european parliament and the states when granting authorisations for the placing on the market of new gmo food and feed products, thus ensuring more effective democratic control and respect for the public interest.
chairman! - what? the railway industry in europe is now like an athlete who has won a gold medal - he is the world leader. but we know that in sports, it's one thing to reach the top, it's another to hold the position, because there are always new competitors who are training and want to beat the leader. our railway industry, which currently employs some four hundred thousand people across europe, is indeed a world leader in comparison with all other economies, but we are facing very strong competition, especially now, from china, and so we have serious questions about state aid. we know these questions exist, and that creates a difficulty for us. now, what can we do to strengthen this industry? what are its disadvantages? one disadvantage is that the sector, while strong, is still somewhat fragmented across member states. so, commissioner, i would ask the commission to do three things, namely, first of all, to set up a high-level coordination group to identify best practice in the rail sector, to improve standardisation and to promote partnerships so that we can become even stronger. this is our leader, we are the champions. we need to maintain this position by coordinating better.
you're the man! the free movement of citizens of the european union, at least within the schengen area, is one of the most important achievements of the community and this draft regulation aims to promote the free movement of citizens and to simplify the formalities for the operation of certain public documents in the territory of the european union. it is important to note that the regulation does not provide for the use of the recognition of the content of public documents for such purposes. today, millions of europeans move regularly between member states to study, do business, simply travel, etc., and until now the two primary documents accepted were passports and identity cards. it will also be possible to extend this list after the final adoption of the regulation. and of course, i wholeheartedly support the adoption of this long overdue piece of legislation. i would like to emphasise that it is of fundamental importance to balance the rights of citizens and their implementation in practice with the maintenance of safety standards.
- what? this is the fourth stage of the reform of the court of justice and it is worth noting that it certainly proceeded much more smoothly than the previous stage in terms of increasing the number of judges. i believe that a proper reform of the judiciary, taking into account the realities and challenges of today, is important and necessary, but the court of justice is undoubtedly one of the most important institutions of the union, and its effective functioning is therefore a matter of primary importance, so of course i welcomed today's positive vote. it is also important to note that the commission's proposal to regulate the procedure for referring to the general court cases which have not yet been heard by the civil service tribunal and, in turn, cases which have not yet been heard by the civil service tribunal will be referred at the end of august this year to the procedural stage which they will have reached on 31 august. i'm the boss.
you're the man! it should be noted that in its resolution of 15 january 2013, parliament had already voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation on the open, adequate and independent administration of the european union, but for various reasons the commission had not yet drawn up a proposal to that effect, and therefore today's vote was in fact on the same issue. it is hoped that this time the commission will follow the results of the parliament's vote closely and draw up the necessary draft legislation. open, efficient and independent union administration, both within the institutions and between them, and in relations with the member states or the public, are matters of fundamental importance for the proper functioning of the community institutions and for their further development. the same is true for our member states, too, because the more efficient the work of the european union institutions, the more progressive the development work of the member states and regions will potentially be.
chairman! the european railway supply industry, which combines locomotive and rolling stock manufacturing, track, electrical, signalling, telecommunications equipment, etc., now employs 400 000 people. the sector is broadly represented by both small and medium-sized enterprises and large industry leaders. it is worth noting that the union's share of the world market in the railway supply sector is a whopping 46%, which makes this sector of fundamental importance for the development of the community economy and other areas. to further strengthen the competitiveness of this sector in the face of increasingly intense international competition, a great deal of attention needs to be devoted to promoting innovation and investment in this area - which is what we have done in this document - and the same applies to asset support and promoting a better market environment both within and outside the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in 2009 the lisbon treaty created the european parliament we know today, although already since 2006 it had been progressively included in more and more negotiations and consultations on numerous important matters, such as the second schengen information system for example. the point of retelling these public and well-known facts was simply to point out one rather simple matter: even though over the last decades all of the union’s institutions have evolved and gained new powers and responsibilities, parliament has undoubtedly evolved the most. today it is by right amongst the top four eu institutions in terms of power, the others being the commission, the council of ministers and the european council. in fact, in a majority of cases when important decisions are concerned, parliament has to agree to their implementation, not to mention that quite a few of them may get amended in the process as well. in this instance, it specifically applies to the conclusion of international agreements, something that the lisbon treaty has brought to the table. moreover, not only does the parliament in this respect possess the power of the consent procedure, it also has to be provided with comprehensive information on the process leading to the conclusion of an agreement in question, meaning that, even though parliament can ask for specific information when such a need arises, it should be given to it of the other involved institutions’ own accord. in other words, i fully support the implementation of additional and the reinforcement of the currently existing measures aimed at a fully functional operation of the system, whose goal is to inform parliament on the negotiation process of international agreements. it is, of course, fully understandable that, depending on each and every particular case, information may not be fully available for various reasons. however, the points mentioned in the debated oral question should indeed be a bare minimum. the third country in question, for example, the type of agreement discussed, the stage of the procedure and the relevant documents pertaining to the negotiations. parliament does not legally have the power of legislative initiative, something that sets it far apart from the national parliaments in our member states. but then again, the european union itself is not a federation or a single state, and parliament is essentially still a consultative assembly. however, it is a consultative assembly with some very advanced powers unlike those of any other similar institutional body around the world, including the ability to ask the commission to draft the necessary legislation. so, in this respect, parliament even has a de facto power of legislative initiative. committee and delegation hearings and non-binding resolutions have an indirect, albeit quite powerful, influence on the union’s foreign policy. for example: approval of overseas development grants, eu enlargement etc., not to mention the non-binding quotes on new eu treaties, even without possessing the respective veto powers. all of this makes the parliament an actor to be taken into utmost consideration. to put the overall idea a bit more simply, thanks to the enormous legitimacy gained through european elections directly from the eu citizens themselves, and due to the long-term constant expansions of various powers through the eu treaties, parliament has the right to be constantly kept in the loop of essentially every eu-level and international development that concerns the european union, which undoubtedly also includes information provision concerning negotiations on international agreements involving the eu.
the blue card issue. thank you, mr. dzhambazki, for accepting my blue card request. you just said that there was a signed declaration from the turkish political leadership and the european union leadership, but in reality the signature on a document that would be legislative, is not, does not exist, is simply a statement, a statement. so, what exactly is the sort of signed declaration between turkey and the european union that you mentioned in your speech?
in writing. ‒ on 8 june this year, parliament voted to set up an inquiry committee within the ep, whose members will examine in detail both the recent financial scandals (e.g. luxleaks and the 'panama papers') and any other possible irregularities and administrative errors in the application of union law on money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i hope that my colleagues, who were appointed today to their posts on this committee, will work as actively and productively as possible in the necessary directions and produce a report within a year that will help not only to understand more clearly the specifics of this and other scandals and the existing policy and legislative shortcomings, but also to properly implement the already much broader measures against such criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ the adoption and entry into force of this protocol will open the door to the participation of the republic of lebanon in the various european union programmes within the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership. the protocol itself specifies the financial and technical arrangements for such future cooperation, with a primary focus on the economic field, which is of particular importance in the current regional situation, as it has a clear and direct impact on all the spheres concerned. i am convinced that the conclusion of the protocol will help to develop the eu-lebanon relations more actively and productively, and i therefore welcome the outcome of the positive vote.
in writing. ‒ as with several other agreements and their protocols, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon needed to be adapted to the territorial enlargement of the union in order to allow full and comprehensive cooperation between all eu member states and a third country. specifically, this vote was about the 2004 enlargement, when a total of 10 countries joined the european union. in view of the specific nature of the vote, i voted unanimously in favour. in parallel, i would like to stress the need for a vote to be held as soon as possible on croatia's accession to the union in 2013.
in writing. ‒ as with several other agreements and their protocols, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon needed to be adapted to the territorial enlargement of the union in order to allow full and comprehensive cooperation between all eu member states and a third country. in particular, this vote was about the enlargement of 2007 when bulgaria and romania joined the european union. in view of the specific nature of the vote, i voted unanimously in favour. in parallel, i would like to stress the need for a vote to be held as soon as possible on croatia's accession to the union in 2013.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of financial account information is one of the best ways to guarantee the maximum efficiency of international cooperation in tax matters and thus to minimise the possibility of tax evasion. it should be noted that such automatic exchange will start from the beginning of 2018 and will cover data collected from 1 january 2017. as is known, similar agreements were also signed with switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein and san marino, in addition to monaco. in recent years, the agreements have been renewed with a view to adapting them to international developments in this field. given the fundamental importance of taxation and the need to continue to combat tax evasion as effectively as possible, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund amounts to a total of eur 1 824 041, which is intended to be used for the reintegration of 488 belgian workers into the national labour market and for the training and appropriate integration of a further 300 young people into the national labour market. hainaut machinery is a heavy industry company from the walloon region of belgium, which was once one of the most industrially developed regions in europe. sadly, its economy lost another thousand jobs. it is hoped that the provision of financial support will help these people to overcome their current difficulties and return to the labour market as soon as possible. in view of the above and the importance of the matter as such, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the issue was already debated in parliament in january this year, but after the vote on it, the draft legislative resolution was returned to the committee on profiles. the main objective of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is to promote a more effective common fisheries policy for bluefin tuna stocks in the atlantic and mediterranean. this could be achieved, among other things, by supporting 'traditional' fishermen who use various types of amateur fishing gear, such as 'wild boar' nets, which have the added benefit of having a low impact on the affected ecosystems. bluefin tuna is a species of fundamental importance for economic and consumption purposes and should therefore be protected in general, at least for these reasons. bluefin tuna is classified as an endangered species and therefore a number of measures are regularly implemented to promote the maintenance of the existing biological balance and the appropriate stabilisation and increase of stocks. this means that recreational and sport fishing will also be affected.
in writing. ‒ the primary objective of this plan is to establish a framework for managing cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, where these three species are the main fish (about 94% of all annual catches). the plan adopted in 2008 is no longer in line with the reality of cod catches, as long as it does not include brown trout and herring. given the biological and geographical specificities of the baltic sea, it is necessary to put into practice a new model for the exploitation of these stocks, which is to a large extent also offered by this new plan. the renewal and maintenance of stocks, as well as their conservation and interaction, are key components of the new regulation. it is worth noting that, with the entry into force of the regulation, one of the primary concerns must be not only for fish but also for people working in the fisheries sector, particularly in the baltic states, where these sectors have suffered severely since the introduction of counter-sanctions by the russian federation.
in writing. ‒ the council meeting at the end of last year failed to achieve the desire of all member states to establish the most integrated cooperation possible on the issues under consideration, leading 17 member states to opt for closer cooperation between themselves. the scope of the future regulation will cover matrimonial property regime, jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. at the same time, issues such as the capacity of spouses, the existence of marriage, legal capacity and recognition, maintenance obligations and matters of succession will be excluded from it, in order to guarantee the autonomy of the member states in these areas. although the regulation does not cover a number of issues, its adoption and subsequent entry into force will create a very productive format of cooperation to which other member states could gradually join. given the importance of the issues involved, this would be entirely desirable and welcome.
in writing. ‒ there are hundreds of thousands (if not millions) of married couples in the european union where the husband and wife come from different countries or where the couple lives in a third country rather than in their own country. although various types of cross-border guarantees, agreements and other arrangements exist in the union in this field, there is still no comprehensive legislative framework that could effectively complement the internal legislation of the member states. the legislation affecting registered partnerships is therefore primarily that of the member states, irrespective of where the couple resides and where the husband or wife, respectively, comes from. it is worth noting that while 17 member states opted to develop closer cooperation on these issues following the council meeting in december 2015, 23 member states were ready to support the text of the proposal for a regulation, which is very similar to the text discussed today. this gives hope that, once the regulation is adopted, the widest possible range of member states will be able to join its operation.
in writing. ‒ although the second congolese civil war ended in 2003, several groups still exist in the east of the country, whose hostilities against each other and against government forces often involve neighbouring countries, notably uganda. in october 2014, the taliban seized the land of the former president of the republic of tajikistan, mohammad ali khamenei, and the rest of the territory of the former president of the republic of tajikistan, mohammad ali khamenei. several homes, hospitals, and schools were burned. sexual violence, especially against women and children, is widespread, as is actual slavery. moreover, reports indicate that armed groups of rioters and state military forces are often involved in these atrocities. in the territory of the democratic republic of the congo, some 7.5 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, and more than 400 000 have fled their country. with a series of conflicts in the region that have lasted for some 20 years, at least one generation has grown up in a world of war and violence. i join the call on the government of the drc and all other parties to the conflict (in particular regional governments, the drc's neighbours and the african union entities) to work in the closest possible cooperation with each other to put an end to the ongoing violence. in parallel, i welcomed the efforts to minimise the financial support of illegal groups through the trade in conflict minerals.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the primary objectives of the strategic framework 'education and training 2020', set out seven years ago, are to make lifelong learning and mobility a reality, to improve the quality and effectiveness of education and training, to promote equity, social cohesion and civic engagement, and to foster innovation and creativity, including the spirit of entrepreneurship, at all levels of education and training. the system also includes the provision of preschool education assets and the improvement of general literacy levels. despite the considerable progress made in education itself, it is among young university graduates that unemployment rates have risen most rapidly in recent years. i therefore strongly agree that education systems should pay maximum attention to preparing young people for the real world of the labour market so that they can be more actively integrated into it. the same applies to the improvement of the image of the teaching profession and the working conditions associated with it, since in some member states this profession is one of the worst paid and a significant proportion of the staff are even over retirement age. while these issues are primarily the responsibility of the member states, et 2020 and other associated programmes could also bring positive changes.
in writing. ‒ since the adoption of the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec) in 2009, the member states of the union have largely experienced a period of rapid development of renewable energy sources, which is still ongoing and which should be clearly supported in the future. it is understood that renewable energy must not only be environmentally friendly but also economically viable. in this context, financial support from the eu budget in this area is of fundamental importance and highly welcome. the promotion of sectoral transparency, scientific innovation and its integration into practice, the exchange of experience and, as a matter of principle, international cooperation should be the primary pillars of the renewable energy policy that is largely covered by the directive. it is regrettable that the recent commission progress report on renewable energy did not include specific recommendations for individual member states on how to meet the targets set by 2020. it is not possible to promote an effective policy in this area without a detailed analysis of the situation in the countries concerned and the provision of recommendations. i join the call for special attention to be given to the transport sector, which is one of the main polluters of nature. the development and promotion of renewable fuels must become another key pillar of eu and member state policy in this area.
in writing. ‒ greenhouse gas emissions in the european union have decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014, leading to the broad conclusion that the targets of a substantial 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency will be achieved by 2020. it is logical that it is not possible to guarantee the transparency of the field without providing the necessary information and preparing national reports and subsequently compiling them at transnational level. however, i added that the level of bureaucracy in this area is too high, which makes it somewhat difficult to achieve the objectives of the energy efficiency directive and the relevant strategies. in parallel, the conclusion that intergovernmental cooperation should be as active as possible in this respect was also added, which also refers to the need to increase the mutual consistency of legislation. i would also like to note that it is largely thanks to the eu's energy efficiency policy that it has been possible to renovate thousands of houses in my country latvia , thus reducing the costs for the population and the consumption of [often non-renewable] fuel resources. i am very pleased that there is a policy at union level and i am confident that much more will be achieved in the coming years.
i'm surprised at the concern of many of the leaders of the european union for democracy in the united kingdom. it is urgent to implement brexit and to start the article 50 negotiations. where were these leaders when france voted against the constitutional treaty of the european union, which many countries had already ratified at the time? nobody said then that we would continue to build a new europe, but france and the netherlands could leave. why is it different now? because there is an obvious desire to distribute, say, the financial plunder of sicily to paris or other cities across the channel, and in other words, to take from the underdog everything of value and quickly. this is also reflected in the battle over the distribution of commissioner j. hill's portfolio within the european commission, which does not reflect the community approach. and those left-wing politicians who are now pushing for a european referendum that will, with low turnout, challenge the constitutions of the member states, with the sole aim of getting a real european government, instead they will get a broken, fragmented european union. don't do that to me!
in writing. ‒ the agreement signed on 14 march 2016 provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. in my view, the agreement marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and peru and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to protect human health and the environment, and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines in non-road mobile machinery. the regulation should aim to simplify the current legal framework, including measures for simplifying administrative procedures, and to improve the general conditions for enforcement, in particular by strengthening the rules on market surveillance.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament session in strasbourg, i voted against the report on the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market. i believe that the integration of refugees into society is a very topical and important issue at the moment, but given that the social and economic situation in each member state is very different, i believe that the integration policy of refugees is a matter for each individual member state. the labour market and employment are specific to each member state, so one eu approach cannot be applied to all. the integration policy of refugees should be developed by each member state individually, since only the member state has a clear understanding of its internal situation and capabilities.
in writing. ‒ members rejected the idea of creating special labour markets for refugees, advocating instead that the respective national minimum wage should be valid for refugees as well as other workers. i support the call for measures to facilitate effective access for refugees and asylum seekers to housing, health care, education, social protection and the labour market, in order to restore their human dignity and self-worth.
in writing. ‒ i support the report which called on the eu and the member states to promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where economic activities take place and value is created, to promote compulsory country-by-country reporting by the private sector as recommended by the oecd, and to promote good governance notably in tax matters and effective tax collection.
in writing. – i support parliament’s call on the commission to regularly update its trade and investment strategy and to publicly present every two years a detailed implementation report to parliament, starting in 2017, to ensure that it delivers on its promises and expedite its procedures so that negotiated trade agreements can be referred to parliament within a shorter period of time, thereby allowing them to be applied provisionally or entered into force more swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i support asking the eu anti-trafficking coordinator to further develop concrete joint action and measures among the eu, the member states, third countries and international actors so as to set up a more coherent and efficient cooperation in establishing systems that identify, protect and assist victims of trafficking, step up the prevention of trafficking in human beings, seek increased prosecution of traffickers and establish a network capable of responding to emerging concerns.
my fellow citizens! it is essential to maintain a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. it should be remembered that economic relations are more fruitful for countries with the same level of economic development. this is proven in theory and in practice. the trend towards these levels, and the cohesion funding already approved, must therefore be maintained. the use of financial instruments should be encouraged, but it is also essential to maintain grants, which are particularly important for small countries. the protection of the external borders must be a priority to prevent illegal immigration, and the refugee crisis cannot be solved at the expense of other tasks. competitiveness, growth and employment remain topical issues. support should also be provided for the agricultural sector. at the same time, savings must be made, for example by reducing the administrative costs of the european institutions and by agreeing on a single seat for the european parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to say first of all that this vote which is approaching and this discussion on the european border and coastguard agency is of the highest importance for the european union, for our countries and for our citizens: when we are facing global challenges, increased insecurity and increased migration flows, an increased threat of fragmentation in our continent appears. the decision on the european border and coastguard agency actually shows that we can make decisions in a speedy way and in a very efficient way. first of all, i would like to say thank you to the team of shadow rapporteurs present here. if we speak according to terminology of this agency, i would say that if the european parliament needs a rapid reaction force to make some decisions go through, then these people are probably ready to do this. secondly, i would very much like to say thank you to the commission – to both commissioners mr timmermans and mr avramopoulos – and, of course, i would like to express my gratitude to the council, which was represented by the dutch presidency. it was very constructive work. there are a number of things which, within this agency, we can really consider as a positive achievement. first of all, we are really strengthening the efficiency and capacity of the existing frontex. for the first time in european union history, we have a 1500—person—strong reaction force consisting of border guards from the member countries. secondly, what we achieved as a compromise in trialogues with the council and the commission, is that these people are not going bare—handed to support some of the member countries which are facing challenges at their external borders, but they will be provided also with modern necessary equipment, starting maybe with night vision goggles and perhaps ending with planes and ships, if needed. thirdly, i would also say that a big success is the question about positioning liaison officers in the countries with external borders, because this will provide us with the possibility to exchange timely information. in the time when we are facing not only challenges of migration, but also challenges of cross-border crime, terrorism and perhaps even hybrid threats, the necessary information exchange is something which can additionally help our citizens and people to feel secure and to trust that our national governments, as well as european parliament and european commission, are working for their interests on their behalf. we have also been putting a number of other things inside, including the guarantee that we can give this assistance to a member country in need without breaching its sovereignty. but, of course, this decision is not a paper tiger. the country in a hypothetical situation, when it is not capable of controlling its borders and when it is not willing to get assistance from the agency – which is just an assistance and not a replacement for the work of a sovereign nation – can also lead to the situation where member countries decide, for temporary reasons and for security reasons, to introduce also border controls with this country because, as a union, we have to be responsible not only for our security but for the security of other nations as well. finally, of course, there is the highest guarantee for fundamental rights whenever any job is done, as well as the possibility to help with search and rescue and returns. i am looking forward to a positive vote, because every member of this parliament – if he really cares about european union interests, about the interests of our citizens and rights of our citizens, and wants to make our union better – will vote in this case to create this agency.
member of the commission. – madam president, there is one issue monopolising the interests of the newspapers and news agencies around europe, but last week’s events also created a sort of depression to many who lived, dreamed and fought for european integration. well, we should get rid of this mood. what we need, and what citizens are asking for, is a more efficient europe. the european border and coast guard is exactly this. it is a success story, a real achievement, the result of six months of negotiations since the moment this commission put the proposal on the table. it is the creation of an agency that will have the task and the means to support all member states in managing the union’s external borders. it is the creation of a system that will prevent another crisis such as the one we experienced last year. it is the actual recognition that the external border of one member state is the external border of us all and that managing the european union’s external borders is indeed an eu shared responsibility. as regards the concerns of some for the united kingdom’s taxpayers, let us be accurate. the united kingdom gets back a rebate for all schengen-related initiatives. can you imagine how the situation would have been if we had done what we are doing today two years ago. understand that the situation we have now is different. yes, during this period we learned a lot – not only us in the commission but also member states. so you were right, mr kyrkos, when you said earlier that we have learned our lessons. but what are the next steps now? i look forward to you adopting this political compromise tomorrow. it will be a moment of shared satisfaction and we should enjoy our success. on this point, i would like once again to express my warmest thanks to our rapporteur, mr pabriks, and the shadows for this really tremendous work. secondly, we as the commission will support the new presidency and the member states in their efforts to make the agency operational the moment the regulation enters into force. thirdly, we need to go out there and communicate to the citizens this successful outcome, a success story of a political commission that delivers what its president and all of us promised when elected, a european parliament that truly defends the rights of european citizens, and a presidency with the political will to respect the commitment of member states and to find ways to facilitate the negotiations. this is the europe we need to communicate to our citizens. now, allow me to slip into greek since some of my compatriots have asked me some questions. κυρία πρόεδρε, αγαπητοί ευρωβουλευτές, αυτή η συμφωνία που επετεύχθη για την ευρωπαϊκή συνοριοφυλακή, είναι πραγματικά ιστορική και ιδιαίτερα σημαντική. στην πράξη, αναγνωρίζεται ότι τα εξωτερικά ευρωπαϊκά σύνορα, είναι κοινά μας σύνορα και ότι η φύλαξή τους, η διαχείρισή τους, είναι κοινή ευρωπαϊκή ευθύνη. ακούστηκαν πολλά, ήθελα απλώς να σημειωθεί ότι όχι μόνο δεν θίγεται καθόλου η εθνική κυριαρχία, αλλά αντίθετα, αυτό το καινούργιο σώμα θα αποτελείται από στελέχη όλων των ευρωπαϊκών χωρών και θα έχει την ευθύνη για ολόκληρη την ευρώπη, και αυτό εννοούσα πρωτύτερα όταν σημείωσα απαντώντας στον κ. κύρκο, ότι πόσο διαφορετικά θα ήταν τα πράγματα αν αυτό το σώμα υπήρχε δύο χρόνια πριν. θα είχε αντιμετωπιστεί διαφορετικά η προσφυγική κρίση, θα έχει τύχει καλύτερης διαχείρισης και θα είχαν διασφαλιστεί και προστατευθεί πιο αποτελεσματικά τα κοινά ευρωπαϊκά μας σύνορα. σεβασμός, λοιπόν, στην εθνική κυριαρχία. η νέα ενισχυμένη αgency θα συμβάλει τόσο στην πρόληψη, όσο και στην αντιμετώπιση μελλοντικών κρίσεων. δεν θα επαναλάβω όλες τις καινοτομίες, τα πλεονεκτήματα που έχει η ευρωπαϊκή συνοριοφυλακή και ακτοφυλακή, θα τονίσω όμως ότι είμαι υπερήφανος που η πρόταση που κατέθεσα έξι μήνες πριν, γίνεται πραγματικότητα. μετά από εντατικές και ιδιαίτερα δύσκολες, πρέπει να σας πω, αλλά αποτελεσματικές διαπραγματεύσεις, ανάμεσα στους ευρωπαϊκούς θεσμούς, ανάμεσα στα κράτη. αυτή λοιπόν είναι η ευρώπη που αντανακλάται από αυτό το κοινό μας αποτέλεσμα. η ευρώπη της ευθύνης, της αλληλεγγύης, της δράσης· η ευρώπη που όλοι θέλουμε ως ευρωπαίοι πολίτες· η ευρώπη που όχι μονάχα θα αντέξει και θα ξεπεράσει κάθε κρίση, αλλά θα συνεχίσει να δυναμώνει, διασφαλίζοντας τη σταθερότητα, την ασφάλεια και την ευημερία των πολιτών και των κατοίκων της. commission's statement "the commission welcomes that the co-legislators maintained the appointment of the executive director by the management board on the basis of a shortlist drawn up by the commission following an open and transparent selection procedure, as foreseen in the common approach on eu decentralised agencies. however, the commission regrets that the agreement reached by the co-legislators deviates from the common approach as regard the appointment process. the commission sees no objective reasons for this deviation which could affect the autonomy of the agency. the modalities of appointment of the european border cost guard's executive director should therefore not be considered as a precedent for other agencies' founding acts. "
rapporteur. – madam president, the debate showed here in parliament that the majority of our colleagues really understand the work that has been done in the last few months. indeed this work was done in a collegial way between three important institutions: the council, representing the member states; the commission, and the european parliament. i think it is important to say that we have been working in a very collegial way because we understand that either we win together or we will lose separately, and this is one more example to european citizens that we can do this job. indeed, this agency will not be a silver bullet and it will not solve each and every issue in the european union, but we must notice and we must understand that this is a highly important fundamental piece in the larger puzzle of our european union policy, with these big global challenges. as regards the opposition, i would say that i notice the opposition is coming from both sides, or margins, of this house. one side is immediately saying the european union is needed while the other side, unfortunately, is dreaming about paradise, but in some way it is also allowing the lives of refugees and also the lives of their citizens to be dreamed away. as one politician in history said, sometimes the road to hell is paved with good intentions. let us work for now, for today, and let us make the european union and our countries better today, and here, and not dream about something which is extremely difficult to prove and reach. what is next? i expect, and we all expect, that the member states will immediately join and make this agency capable and efficient and ready to work in the next few months. good luck to all of us.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. prime minister! the world's attention, not just ours, is now on the outcome of the british referendum. his people have said they want to surrender. the question is: what is the european union, and who needs it? but it is also an opportunity for us to remind ourselves why and in what ways the european union is really so useful to us and our citizens. after all, there are some issues that we can deal with much better and much more easily when we work together than when we think we can just deal with them on our own. one such specific case that will be updated over the next six months is in the energy sector. we know that europe shares a very high energy dependence on russia, but to solve this we need to work together, we cannot do it alone. there are two specific pieces of legislation that are being pushed forward - one is the gas safety regulation, the other is the decision on intergovernmental agreements with third-country energy suppliers, and it is precisely during your presidency that we have the opportunity to strengthen these new pieces of legislation, giving our citizens greater security and greater independence from imported energy sources.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. if someone suggests divorce, your first reaction may be anger: 'how could that be?!' but it's smarter not to be angry if someone wants to leave, but to ask why anyone would want to leave the european union in the first place. i think we have one problem: we in europe are not doing enough of what we should be doing. we do too many things that nobody really asks us to do. what is the foundation of the european union? it's a free market or a single market. i think the european commission should put all its strength and focus into directly promoting those laws, those legislative acts that will liberate the market, that will give people jobs that will keep them safe and thus help make them happier and believe again in the european project, and it should do less or not do anything that is not related to the single market. we know that in the digital realm, we have work to do. we have a lot to do in the energy sector. we know that, for example, with mobile communications, we've already done a lot of things that we can do together to bring down the cost. so let's focus on the european foundation, the foundation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. this decision is a very important step that helps to involve azerbaijan in important eu programmes. i support this decision.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus from the 2015 financial year, amounting to eur 1 349 million. the adoption of the draft will reduce the share of gni contributions from member states to the union budget in 2016. i support these amendments.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the council's position at first reading to adopt a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to achieve the same high level of security of network and information systems throughout the european union. modern technology is advancing at a tremendous rate, and legislation often does not keep pace with it. this can have an impact on our security, as new types of crime are also possible with the development of new technological services in the digital environment. the text of the agreement stipulates that companies providing basic services in the eu, such as transport, energy, banking and health, as well as companies providing digital services, will have to improve their resilience to cyberattacks. the european union will now have common cybersecurity standards and improved cooperation between member states to tackle this type of crime. the decision will also help businesses protect themselves and eu citizens from cyberattacks.
in writing. ‒ information systems can be affected by security incidents, such as human mistakes, natural events, technical failures or malicious attacks. these incidents are becoming bigger, more frequent, and more complex. i share the aim of the proposed directive to ensure a high common level of network and information security.
in writing. ‒ the amended text stipulates that this regulation lays down a framework that applies to energy-related products and provides them with a label regarding energy efficiency, absolute consumption of energy and other environmental and performance characteristics. it allows customers to choose more energy-efficient products in order to reduce their energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on a report containing a plan for the establishment of an eu external border surveillance system and combining the forces of the border agency frontex and the member states' border services. in the current geopolitical situation, the european union is feeling very strong pressure on its external borders, precisely because of the current migration crisis. this report states that if in the future an eu member state fails to cope with the threat of an external border as a result of this pressure, it will be able to ask for help from this newly created european border and coast guard. this regulation will not be a solution to the migration crisis, but it is certainly a step in the right direction to better and more effectively protect the member states of the european union in the future from potential crisis situations at its external borders. i supported this report because it will improve cooperation between member states, as well as the safety and security of the eu's external borders and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is a positive step forward. this new agency will be better placed to help member states ensure more effective management of the eu’s external borders. this is essential if we want to get to grips with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis and want the schengen area to work effectively.
in writing. ‒ the proposal seeks to improve european cooperation on coastguard functions by developing cross-sectorial cooperation among the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency to improve synergies between those agencies, in order to provide more efficient and cost-effective multipurpose services to national authorities carrying out coastguard functions. i support it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to enable the three european agencies whose duties include dealing with disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information pertaining to their activities. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency must be able to cooperate by pooling their operational capacities. i support this decision.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. in the past the european parliament called several times on the commission to take measures to reinforce the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget makes a significant contribution to the fight against unemployment, especially through the european social fund and the youth employment initiative. from my point of view, it is important that parliament stresses that the initiative should not be terminated after only two years of funding. an efficient youth guarantee at european union level would cost eur 21 billion.
in writing. ‒ there are 28 different national tax policies in the european union and it is important that eu member states retain exclusive national competence in tax law and enforcement. i believe that tax evasion and tax avoidance is a global problem. we need to find solutions to improve the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax policies in some member states that distort competition and the single market. given that the report contains points which, in my view, are not acceptable because they interfere with the right of the member states to plan and determine their own tax policies, i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ the scale of tax evasion and avoidance is estimated by the commission to be up to eur 1 trillion a year. developing countries are disproportionately affected by corporate tax avoidance, which is responsible for an estimated usd 100 billion in annual tax revenue losses, depriving them of essential resources to fund the most basic services and harming eu development cooperation policies. fighting tax avoidance can give us an additional source of financing for social programmes and infrastructure. that is why i fully support the conclusions and recommendations of the special committee on tax rulings.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to praise the work you and your team have put into the drafting of the strategy. i regret that, due to very unfortunate circumstances, the strategy was not discussed properly at the european council and was just welcomed but not endorsed. vice-president of the commission/ high representative mogherini has done a good job in taking on board recommendations of various stakeholders, including those made by this house. i fully agree that the highest priority for security and defence in this strategy is security. short of an ambition to create a true european defence union, the strategy points in the right direction of cooperation to increase defence capabilities, with the expectation that the white paper on defence will bring us closer to adequately funded – and i underline ‘funded’ – integrated european defence. i support the shift to principled pragmatism in foreign affairs that this strategy implies. it does not mean abandoning our values, but rather setting realistic objectives, so the union is able to protect and ultimately advance those values. resilience is another key concept of the strategy. it is as important for our neighbourhood as it is for our own states and societies, especially in the light of ever-closer intertwinement of external and internal security. we are entering an era requiring an unprecedented level of policy coherence to counter external and internal threats. i strongly welcome the determination to continue a credible enlargement policy and a clear, strict and fair accession process as an investment in our own security and prosperity. last but not least, i would repeat parliament’s call for annual implementation reports on the strategy to be discussed in this house.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to congratulate mrs stevens for her really great job. we have a very useful and well—balanced report which focuses on those recommendations that fall only within the eu’s competence and pays special attention to the eu institutions, which are to be a role model in implementing the convention. the commission and the member states have to take the necessary measures to mainstream disability in all legislation, policies and strategies. all persons with disabilities are entitled to full participation in society and support from publicly funded systems. we therefore have reasonable concerns that the european structural and investment funds are being misused to promote institutionalisation. therefore it is extremely important that the report contains strong recommendations on spending, withdrawing and recovering payments if the obligation to respect the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities is breached. being a long—standing member of the committee on petitions, i can confirm that a considerable number of petitions from persons with disabilities are submitted to the parliament every year, demonstrating their difficulties with regard to access to work, employment, education, transport or participation in political, public and cultural rights. it is very important that we also collect data on violations of these rights, which must be disaggregated data collected by the eu social services.
in writing. ‒ i fully support parliament’s recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly in such areas as: the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development and the eu and reform of the un system.
in writing. ‒ the report stated that that the un crpd committee’s concluding observations on the eu’s implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), published in 2015, represent an important sign of the eu’s commitment to equality and respect for human rights and offer guidance for legislative and policy actions across the eu’s sphere of competence. i support full implementation at eu level and sufficient resources to be allocated for this.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the eu model of personal data protection laws does not yet exist in china. china has not enacted legislation that specifically addresses the collection, storage, transmission and operation of personal information. china has also not entered into any treaty with the eu or anything similar to the eu—us safe harbour framework. the eu data protection model is not the international standard. china and the eu are different in their underlying approach to personal data processing. in china today the data protection recipient is not an individual or a data subject, as in the european union, but a consumer. there is no data protection authority or any other state agency to monitor the protection of personal data. courts are apparently the only viable remedy for the protection of individuals in this regard. over the past few years, china has enacted a series of data protection-related legal texts. this initiative has to be strengthened and tested. while commercial and other relationships need to be stifled on data protection grounds, concrete and specific policy recommendations need to be provided to china. china would have the opportunity to demonstrate that its recent data protection effort is part of a persistent policy and not just a pretext to attract more internal and external information-processing businesses. a list of policy recommendations has been drawn up with regard to, firstly, the basic data protection principle, secondly, the basic data protection individuals’ rights, thirdly, data transfers, and, finally, the enforcement mechanism. the relationship between china and the eu in the field of personal data protection will have to overcome many difficulties but, if both sides genuinely want overcome them, they can succeed.
mr president, the difference between wages in eastern europe and western europe for the same work is still very large. western europeans want to protect their jobs and to keep to their level of salary, but eastern europeans want to receive a larger salary for their work. in the single european market, conditions such as this inevitably result in the problems we are discussing today. in my opinion, the main problem to which we have to find a solution is where the boundaries lie between protection against social dumping and unjustified protection of a domestic labour market. i think that restrictive measures are not permitted if their true purpose is not to allow on their labour market people who in their own state receive a lower salary. in 2015, france adopted a law concerning the application of the french minimum wage to the transport sector, and a minimum wage act came into force in germany on 1 january 2015. in this case, i support the decision of the european commission to take legal action against france and germany about minimum wage legislation in the road transport sector.
rapporteur. – madam president, the report points to the need to makes changes to society. having achieved the situation where women and men are equal earners and equal carers, there is a need for strong action at european, local and national levels for legislative measures, combined with non—legislative measures, in order to allow men and women to better reconcile work, caring for and spending time with family and friends and time for leisure and personal development. a labour market unable to provide flexible working arrangements and adequate-level schemes is a matter of everyday concern for a very high proportion of the population. the eu has to urgently adopt work-life balance policies – today’s reality – by taking into account the needs of an increasingly diverse society. in the report we call on the commission to put forward a number of legislative proposals on family and care—related types of leave, namely a revised maternity leave directive, a paternity leave directive and a carers’ leave directive. furthermore, member states are in particular called upon to provide for accessible, available and affordable, high-quality care services for children, older relatives, family members with disabilities or those with illnesses. a specific part of the report is dedicated to the quality of employment. the crisis has also led to an increase in the numbers of the working poor throughout europe, causing people to have to work more and longer hours, even combining several jobs, in order to earn a decent income. it is therefore important to ensure an inadequate wage for all workers and provide worker-oriented flexible working arrangements that do not cause an additional burden for the personal and family situation of both women and men. finally, labour market conditions favourable for work-life balance can only be created if quality of life is supported within and outside work. this means ensuring people have enough time outside work for personal development and leisure, and combating inequalities in society as a whole. we the co-rapporteurs are very satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the draft report by the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. we regret, and are extremely anxious about, the large number of requests for split votes. we have all received the joint statement of 11 networks of ngos – that is the text – who have been working together since 2012 in order to raise awareness about the daily challenges faced by women and men across the eu in reconciling their work, family and private life. these 11 networks of ngos are calling on us to adopt this report in full to avoid undermining its comprehensive and coherent nature. i very much hope that colleagues will not ignore this request.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have been hearing from various witnesses for almost half a year. they have come from the scientific and research communities, from ngos, from the automotive industry, their suppliers, etc., and from the european commission. so what have we learned in this half-year? the first question is, how did we get to where we are in the first place? what we've heard is that in europe, for ideological reasons, i'm not saying wrongly, but for ideological reasons, we set the ultimate goal -- the climate goal -- to reduce co2 emissions. and as a result, they encouraged, they deliberately encouraged the development of the diesel industry and the interest of consumers in buying diesel generators, but ignored or revised the fact that it had been known for a long time that diesel, while having low co2 emissions, has high levels of nitrogen dioxide, various oxides, so-called, which are directly harmful to human health. in pursuit of one goal, it was reviewed that it has a side effect, a negative effect on human health. the other one. the adoption of the latest regulation on car emission standards, euro 5 and 6 in 2007, did not solve the already known problem of road emissions, which are much higher than laboratory emissions. and thirdly, it didn't solve the problem of not having european-level supervision, everything was left at the level of the member states. so we need to learn from ideology, but we also need to consider all the side effects that could be. from the tests, we need to have tests that are related to road emissions, not just the lab. and with surveillance, we need to create a european level of surveillance so that there is no uncoordinated action by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the report’s idea to develop strategies for smart specialisation on the basis of analyses of each region’s existing capabilities, assets and competences, to focus on entrepreneurial discovery in order to detect emerging niches or comparative advantages for smart specialisation, and to enhance a stronger partnership between public and private sectors.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that encourages the member states to make greater use of integrated territorial investment and community-led local development, and its recommendation that special focus be placed on projects that strive to adapt localities and regions to the new demographic situation and counteract the inequalities resulting from it. i think that the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes should be further simplified.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the car industry because i believe that there is a need to come up with concrete proposals to improve air quality in european cities. the committee's work began with the volkswagen scandal, which also brought to light the issue of air quality problems in european cities. diesel cars themselves produce a large amount of harmful waste, exceeding the legal limits several times. the commission has already heard from former and current commissioners, technical experts, representatives of car manufacturers and ngos. we will also be hearing from member states in the coming months. the work of the committee will conclude with an extensive final report and recommendations.
in writing. ‒ from my point of view it is very important to collect and analyse information to ascertain whether the commission and the member states had evidence of the use of defeat mechanisms, as well as to collect and analyse information on the implementation by the member states of directive 2007/46/ec. transparency and coordinated actions are the best weapons against abuses in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi. he was charged with having committed the crime of defamation. i am in principle against such kind of articles in the criminal codes. especially i am sceptical when such articles are used against journalists and politicians. sometimes it is a very useful instrument against political opponents, especially when it was used against opponents of hungarian regime leader mr orbán.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to conclude an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and china pursuant to the general agreement on tariffs and trade relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. i support the position of parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to conclude an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and uruguay pursuant to the general agreement on tariffs and trade relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. i support the position that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the proposal seeks to amend regulation no 471/2009 in order to align it with the new institutional context. i support the position to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts in respect of the adaptation of the list of customs procedures or provisions deriving from international conventions, changes necessary for methodological reasons.
in writing. ‒ reliable statistical data are needed to ensure the functioning of the single energy market. the european commission has therefore come up with legislation to ensure high-quality data collection and evaluation on gas and electricity prices in the european union. the commission will have access to data on the prices of natural gas and electricity paid by households and businesses after the adoption of this law and will be able to make an in-depth assessment of the functioning of the single energy market in order to come up with appropriate legislation to address shortcomings, if necessary. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of this law.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis of collecting information about gas prices into an obligatory one to avoid problems in the data collection as has been reported by several member states. i fully support the adoption of this regulation, because the creation of the common european energy market needs reliable information. the way to a common eu energy market consists of a lot of steps. this important decision is one of them.
in writing. ‒ the existing regulatory framework for european markets needs to be adjusted in order to allow a growing share of renewable energy sources and to close existing cross-border regulatory gaps. a new market design for electricity must be based on market principles, which would stimulate investment, ensure that small and medium enterprises have access to the energy market and unlock a sustainable and efficient electricity supply through a stable, integrated and smart energy system. but from my point of view a lower electricity price for people is the most important factor.
in writing. ‒ this strategy provides a framework for integrating efficient heating and cooling into eu energy policies. i support the opinion that we have to ensure that a share of energy efficiency funding has to be dedicated to improvements for energy-poor households, to work with stakeholders, to raise consumer awareness of household energy efficiency aspects and to stimulate the take-up of the recommendations of company energy audits.
in writing. ‒ the thematic objective of this report is to enhance the competitiveness of smes. to reach this goal we have to honestly analyse existing problems and after that to make recommendations. from my point of view, the important recommendation of this report is to gain simplified and less regulated access to credit, enhancing support from the european funds to smes, reducing complexity of implementation of support schemes.
in writing. ‒ i support presented eu strategy for the alpine region to preserve and valorise natural resources, to develop ecological connectivity, to improve risk management as regards climate change, and carry out a comprehensive vulnerability assessment of the sectors and systems likely to be affected and developing a regional strategy on adapting to climate change.
in writing. ‒ i regretted the fact that to date member states’ contributions to africa have remained too low. we live in a very connected world and if we do not support the development of third world states its means that such indifference will return like a boomerang and will hit us. a shining example is the current refugee crisis. it cannot be resolved without wise strategic decisions. one of the instruments for such strategic decisions is the eu trust fund for africa.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on a report on creating favourable conditions for work-life balance in the labour market. i believe that this is a welcome initiative that will improve the quality of life of european union citizens and bring work-life balance in the context of today's busy work schedule. it is also necessary to limit existing discrimination in the eu labour market so that everyone has equal access to a job and that the competence and suitability of employees for the job are taken into account when negotiating or selecting them. i voted against the point on the introduction of a minimum wage scheme. i believe that this is again an interference with the tax policies of the member states, which in the european union are strictly the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with reporters that reconciliation of professional, private and family life needs to be guaranteed as a fundamental right for all, with measures being available for everyone, going beyond young mothers, fathers or carers. it is necessary to promote family-friendly working environments, reconciliation plans, return-to-work programmes, communication channels between employees and employers, and incentives for businesses and self-employed workers, in particular to ensure that people are not economically penalised for having children.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for the next 12 months, everyone will have everything they want. more social, but no mention of austerity or flexibility in the application of the stability and growth pact. internet in the villages, quick brexit, and we'll immediately develop capital markets outside london. and to combat social dumping, thereby reducing inequalities in the social sphere. yes, in a particular country yes, but between european countries it will be even greater social inequality, because a new generation from the poorer countries will move to where they can get this european quality of life, and that will be a problem of the european union. for your protection. yes, a new fund, which may not say how it will work, and is a signal to the nato countries that in this case we will plan military operations without the us and without the uk in the future, which i think is not right, especially because in your speech, mr president of the commission, i did not hear a word about russia. yes, except that we are compensated for the loss of the russian market. but the russian aggression in ukraine, the crimean issue, it's as if this aggressor doesn't exist right outside the borders of the european union.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, to give croatian citizens access to switzerland’s labour market. it is a formal but necessary step for the equality of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament to give its consent to the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment. this formalised the practice of holding high—level, informal meetings in the framework of the european employment strategy, and subsequently the lisbon strategy. dialogue with social partners has to be at the highest possible level.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of proposal is to adopt a uniform set of technical standards for inland navigation vessels. i agree that it would provide: more legal certainty; ensure that technical adaptations to technical progress can be introduced within a reasonable time; ensure that high safety standards on all eu inland waterways are maintained; promote innovation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i share the purpose of proposal is to conclude the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part. the agreement contains provisions that will give the possibility to partner countries to benefit from preferential market access to the eu.
in writing. ‒ we can not keep silence when some member states breach the rule of law. on my point of view eu structures, politicians and mass media have to pay attention to situation in poland and other eu countries. the copenhagen criteria should be fulfilled not only before accession into eu, but always.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia represents the only successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region. that is why for the eu it is very important to support democratic processes in this country.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against the report on social dumping in the eu, because the title of the report itself suggests that it is a blow against the eu's greatest achievement the single market. the report introduces a uniform definition of 'social dumping' which has not been possible at eu level until now. the introduction of the social dumping definition is a distortion of competition and a desire to restrict the free movement of services, goods and people within the eu. this is contrary to the interests of latvia and the union as a whole. the report also highlights the highly controversial directive on posting of workers, which stipulates that a latvian worker who goes to germany for a month receives the german minimum wage. however, this report calls for equal pay for equal work, which would be detrimental to companies in less affluent countries. social security arrangements, such as the same minimum wage, vary so widely between eu member states that the introduction of a minimum wage in the eu is unrealistic for the time being.
in writing. ‒ i support the idea to intensify the fight against the use by certain economic actors of illegal practices such as undeclared work or of abusive practices such as bogus self-employment and other social dumping examples. but at the same time, some countries should avoid unjustified protection measures of their labour market.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the failure to deport these people who entered the european union illegally and were denied refugee status sends a bad signal for a number of reasons. first, because many non-refugees understand that, for example, by specifically losing their passports, they can stay in the european union for many years. such success stories from their own people also stimulate the next waves of illegal immigrants. the provision, maintenance and deportation of illegal immigrants requires enormous resources, and these resources and administrative resources are sorely lacking to help people who are actually fleeing the ravages of war, who are threatened with death or torture in their home countries. the european immigration system has proven unprepared to deal with a scheme involving both the illegal immigrant himself and the politicians and officials of the immigrant's country of origin. these countries and their authorities specifically impede the issuing of new documents to their citizens in order to allow them to remain in europe illegally for longer. the regulation under discussion today provides an opportunity to put this matter in order and finally to put some order in things. the submission of a new document will not solve the problem in itself, but it is a necessary step to establish an effective system that addresses the problems of returning illegal immigrants quickly and correctly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, tackling the problem of the growing risk of poverty and social exclusion for millions of people in the eu is one of the political priorities of the green/efa group. the position of parliament itself in this respect has been clearly shown this week when we voted on the report by vilija blinkevičiūtė and myself, as well as the report by guillaume balas – a call to combat social and economic inequalities, promote measures aiming to put in place adequate minimum income schemes, to avoid excessive wage disparities and to underpin social convergence. the minimum income in my country, latvia, is five times smaller than in luxembourg and four times smaller than in great britain. at the same time, it is 45% of the national average wage and the gini co-efficient in latvia is much higher than the eu—wide one. how can we talk about social cohesion when we have such disparities? how is it possible to stop the outflow of labour to the west in such a situation? the disparity between poor and rich in the member states, and between poor and rich people within one state, must be eliminated.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate renate weber on this report. the green/efa group fully supports the call addressed to the council to break the deadlock and speed up the adoption of the eu horizontal anti-discrimination directive. at the present time the extension of the existing anti—discrimination legislation, and the enforcement of its consistent application, should be viewed as an important element in the prevention of radicalisation. council directive 2000/78/ec makes it possible to introduce positive action in respect of groups suffering from severe and structural discrimination, a possibility not fully used by member states. i also want to underline and support the recommendation on the adoption of a european framework for national strategies to combat anti-semitism and islamophobia. i would like to add here that russophobia is a further phenomenon that has appeared recently.
in writing. ‒ the regulation we are discussing today will provide an opportunity to settle this issue and finally put things in order. the issue of a new document will not in itself solve the problem. further efforts are needed to force the country concerned to recognise this document. but it is a necessary step to create an effective system that addresses the problem of illegal immigration quickly and correctly.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to reform the prospectus rules in order to enhance investor protection and market efficiency while establishing the capital markets union. this information is to be the basis on which investors can decide whether to invest in a variety of securities. i agree that a harmonised eu prospectus is an essential tool for the integration of capital markets throughout the union.
in writing. i am skeptical about such systems. it doesn't work in real life. we need a comprehensive mechanism that helps in a real way, not just in a declarative way.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg because the report includes a demand for a minimum wage in the european union. i consider that such a requirement constitutes an interference with the tax systems of the member states. the tax policy of the european union is firmly based on the principle of subsidiarity. the situation varies greatly from country to country. i believe that member states should decide their own tax policies.
in writing. ‒ it is very important that the proposal for a decision provides that the guidelines for member states’ employment policies shall be taken into account by the member states in their employment policies. member states should continue to make every effort to address the priority areas of: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, improving the performance of education and training systems, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. ‒ the postal market is still an area of the economy with strong prospects for growth and increasing competition. it is important to establish affordable and reliable parcel delivery services as part of the realisation of the digital single market, and to promote the strategy on e—commerce and cross-border parcel delivery.
in writing. ‒ micro enterprises small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in the european economy in terms of employment and growth. is important to ensure coordination, consistency and synergies between european instruments and programmes for smes, such as the european structural and investment funds, to promote a holistic approach to the dissemination of information on all eu funding opportunities, and to make significant progress towards further simplification so as to make funding for smes more attractive.
in writing. ‒ we are awaiting from the commission proposals to facilitate loans to micro-companies and smes to increase their available credit, to improve the regulatory framework for social businesses, and to create a differentiated approach to improving the environment for smes, taking into account the eu regions’ specific structural differences.
in writing. ‒ i support the report’s recommendations to strengthen the role of the national equality bodies, including through the provision of adequate funding, to display greater commitment in implementing the principle of equality between women and men in employment policies, to enhance the reconciliation of work and private life by concrete measures, such as urgently proposing new legislative proposals on the maternity leave directive so as to guarantee the right for women to return to work after pregnancy and maternity leave and parental leave.
in writing. ‒ i support the report’s call on the commission and member states to use the scope for implementing the european globalisation adjustment fund budget more flexibly and effectively, with the focus on outcomes, impact and value added. the application procedure should be made faster, and the commission must assess the reasons for the low implementation rates and propose measures to address the existing bottlenecks and ensure optimal use of the fund.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! i was going to say 'dear commissioner', but i see the commissioner is not in place yet. in general, the practice of the commissioner entering the room in the middle of a debate is not open to criticism. in fact, the attitude towards the issues being debated here in parliament, i don't know... i can only ask a rhetorical question... the commissioner is simply complaining about the pain of the members. on this subject, ladies and gentlemen, i can say that the business of illegal and legal contracts tempts many athletes and coaches to engage in fraudulent negotiation of the results of sports competitions and to make money from it. this process is extremely dangerous for many reasons. first, fraud is itself a crime that causes material harm to the public. second, such activity undermines public confidence in public authorities, as they are unable to effectively combat this type of crime. third, it discredits the sport itself. one of the most important functions of sport is to promote healthy lifestyles, especially among young people, and if cheating becomes widespread and sports competitions become competitions for chemists who invent new forms of doping, or the result of the competition becomes a commodity in itself, sport can be irreversibly discredited in the eyes of young people and its positive potential significantly reduced. the characteristic of such crimes is that they are usually international in nature. this is why the european union has a duty to engage in the fight against this type of crime. without coordination or a common approach, no significant results can be achieved. a good instrument has already been developed the council of europe convention against the manipulation of sports competitions, to which the european union could accede. the convention provides for the introduction of certain standards at international level concerning national authorities, sports organisations and gambling operators, as well as the establishment of an international body for effective supervision. this document summarises international practice, draws conclusions from the experience of countries around the world on how to combat such violations in sport and also recommends that national legal regulations on more serious crimes provide for criminal liability. unfortunately, the entry into force of the convention has now been postponed. many eu countries are ready to ratify the convention, but this process is complicated by internal procedural issues within the eu and by differences in national positions. i would like the european commission to be more actively involved in this matter. clearly, not everything is up to the commission, as the member states also play an important role in this process. but i would like to call on the commission to do everything in its power to make positive change happen. and, commissioner, if you are really late for the european parliament, perhaps you should think about leaving your post, resigning if you are not interested in this work and these debates.
chairman! ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! mevyar saqartvelo translated from georgian, it means "i love georgia". i think and i am sure that most of the members who are members of the european parliament would say the same. so i have a counter question: why are we, the european union, mentioning georgia? why is it that we, the european parliament, do not know what is happening in the council, and the council of the european union is at a given moment the braking factor that really prevents the introduction of a visa-free regime between georgia and the european union at a given moment? i am ashamed, colleagues, because in the current situation, when the crisis in the european union is deepening, we do not have many friends, but georgia is one of our allies and friends. i call on the european parliament to actively participate in this process and to introduce a visa-free regime with georgia.
mr president, we need to strengthen the rights of suspects and accused persons, not only to protect their human rights, but also to improve our criminal procedure system and to make it more just and effective. if because of objective factors, such as low income, a bad family situation, a poor standard of living and the high cost of a legal aid lawyer, people did not receive proper professional protection, they became an easy target for unprofessional procedures and staff. the system became lazy, neglectful and unjust. that is why it is necessary in the european union to set high a common minimum standard of legal aid. this minimum standard also allows the strengthening of mutual trust among judicial authorities and can thus help improve the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. i fully support the report’s author’s approach whereby member states should ensure that ordinary legal aid has to be provided at all stages of the criminal justice process. information on legal aid in criminal proceedings should be easily accessible and understandable.
in writing. ‒ climate change, global warming and rising average air temperatures are undeniable facts that the world has been facing for some time. most of these are the direct consequences of human activity, so the un meets every year at climate change conferences to discuss options and targets for reducing these changes. the eu countries have always set ambitious targets, for example by introducing an emissions trading system. however, it is clear that the eu alone cannot fully mitigate global warming. it's a joint effort of all the countries in the world. that is why, at the un climate conference in paris last november, countries signed an agreement with binding climate change mitigation targets. this was a major step forward, because without the agreement of the other major emitters of co2, europe's efforts in this area would be in vain. that is why i voted in favour of ratifying the paris agreement at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
in writing. – i support the suggestion to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015. we should show our solidarity with the greek people and to help them to restore their communities.
in writing. ‒ i support the suggestion to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist finland’s workers in respect of redundancies in the information and communications technology sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the suggestion to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist sweden in respect of redundancies in the telecommunications sector.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of this proposal is to set out common minimum rules governing the right to provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. the draft directive aims to: ensure the effectiveness of the right of access to a lawyer at an early stage in the criminal proceedings for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty; ensure that requested persons in european arrest warrant proceedings have access to legal aid to ensure the right of access to a lawyer in both the executing and issuing member state. the ep suggested broadening the scope of the proposal to include the right to ‘ordinary’ legal aid to suspects and individuals charged in criminal proceedings, as well as for those whose surrender is sought in the context of the execution of a european arrest warrant. i voted in favour and i think that is very important to make this protection framework not lower than existing higher standards in certain member states and the standards in the charter and the european convention on human rights.
in writing. ‒ the main proposals of this amendment to the council regulation are: to strengthen export controls targeting capital punishment; to create additional measures concerning listed goods as, for example, the proposal prohibits brokers in the union from providing brokering services in relation to goods whose export and import are prohibited as such goods have no practical use other than for capital punishment; to clarify the definition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; to create a system of exchange of information between customs authorities. i support these amendments and i think that the european parliament has made the draft more clear and workable.
in writing. ‒ the proposal provided that the council adopts an implementing decision by which europol is authorised to approve the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china and europol. the aim is to increase effectiveness in preventing and combating serious forms of crime with cooperation. such agreements have the objective of supporting and strengthening action by the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. i support broadening the cooperation between eu and china in the field of security.
in writing. ‒ the report recalled the unique nature of acp-eu cooperation and stressed the need to put in place a new structure that maintains those parts of the acp-eu acquis, e.g., a commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy, the objective of the rule of law, exchange of best practice in a common framework. ep members underlined that the common framework and the regional agreements should be legally binding. the report states that the following must be placed at the centre of a new agreement: the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals and respect for internationally agreed aid effectiveness principles, the fight against, and ultimate eradication of, poverty and inequalities, human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. commissioner, please! when we raised this issue, we, the transport committee, really wanted this debate on the transport situation in and around calais, not so much on this as on the asylum seekers issue, which we have again turned away from, by politicizing it more. i just want to say that in my view, it's not just the asylum seekers' problem in this case, because these people are in a safe place. they are located in the schengen area - in this case mainly in france, but also in belgium and neighbouring countries. their lives are safe. they have an obligation to register and apply for refugee or alternative person status, and this does not give them the right to organise - often with criminal entities and criminal organisations - this situation, which creates problems for transport. in this case, we should have spoken today more about whether the commission, together with the french government, sees this, particularly situations that could create a safe situation for the mainly heavy hauliers, that they know where to turn when they see these suspicious situations, when there is a break-in in their cars, so that they themselves do not become victims not only of these often criminal criminals, but also, for example, of the british authorities, if they are transferred over and end up in this case in another legal proceedings and are in fact considered human smugglers. this is what we needed to talk more about today, and i very much hope that the commissioner will respond to these kinds of aspects.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. you guys! one word for the border. the border. do we remember what borders were like in europe not so long ago? we've had different experiences. some europeans might have been able to travel to other countries, but visa-free travel - free to study, free to work - was unthinkable. for those who lived in the baltic states, behind the iron curtain, in the soviet union, travelling outside the union without special permits was unthinkable. if someone else received these special permits, there was often a further obligation to report to the czech what he had seen and heard. today we live in a european union where our borders are so open that we often forget that not so long ago they were not. we have free movement of goods, services, people, capital, which we just assume it should be, but still, when we travel with our mobile phones, suddenly the old borders appear increased tariffs. god forbid i should call my mother, for what it's worth! now we've partially addressed that with our rule that will remove the roaming charges from next june. we still have to agree on wholesale tariff limits, but we will do that. but the other part we have to discuss. why is it cheaper or more expensive to call from, say, one member state to another from home than from another member state? we have these international tariffs. it is also necessary to consider how to introduce or, more precisely, eliminate unnecessary prices and open up competition.
in writing. ‒ austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. i support expanding the possibilities of children’s rights protection.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention has been ratified by 93 countries, including all eu member states. the convention entered into force in kazakhstan on 1 september 2013. only the netherlands has already accepted the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention. i share the goal of the proposed act to authorise certain member states to accept, in the interests of the european union, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 1980 has been ratified by 93 countries, including all eu member states. the convention entered into force in the republic of korea on 1st march 2013. several member states have already accepted the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention. i share the goal of the proposed act to authorise certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ progress in reducing malnutrition has been made but remains too slow and uneven, 795 million people in the world currently do not get enough food to lead a decent, active life, and one in three people are malnourished in one form or another. at the nutrition for growth summit in 2013, the eu committed to reducing stunting by at least 7 million by 2025 and pledged eur 3.5 billion for the 2014-2020 period to achieve this target. i support the resolution’s call on the commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments, to mobilise, forthwith, long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the concerns of parliament on the effectiveness of the future pif directive. the efficiency of the eppo will depend on the clarification of competences, and if the pif directive fails to achieve this, eu legislators will not be able to ensure the effectiveness of the eppo. that’s why it is important to call on the council to provide an unambiguous and clear set of competences and proceedings concerning the eppo based on the proposed directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law (pif directive) and to call on the council to strengthen its efforts to reach an agreement on the pif directive which includes vat in its scope, and to reopen negotiations with parliament in order to enable the eppo to be established.
in writing. ‒ competitiveness is one of the foundations of prosperity. if we can produce goods or services better and cheaper than our neighbours, we are rewarded for it and we become richer. the same is true of foreign investment. they go where there is good physical infrastructure, a trained workforce, the rule of law and other aspects. europe has been losing out to competition from other regions of the world for some time, with the result that investment is fleeing, businesses are closing, employees are being laid off and production is being moved outside europe. the return on investment depends on improving europe's competitiveness. this can be done in many ways, but the main ones are to invest in education and to improve labour legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i share the view that european industry has played an essential role in the history of european integration. at present, this central and strategic eu industry faces strong competition from third countries, which export lower-cost products to the european market by carrying out an aggressive and rapidly expanding policy on all continents. trade in construction machinery in the eu has suffered strong disruptions in recent years, linked to the reduction of public and private investment. i am convinced that european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for the competitiveness of the eu. a strong industry will allow the eu to face the different challenges ahead. i support calls on the commission to ensure that eu trade policy is more consistent with industrial policy, so that trade policy takes account of the need to secure european industrial jobs and does not lead to further deindustrialisation.
mr president, the brutal crimes of the assad-putin regime against the civilian population of syria are abominable. erasing aleppo from the surface of the earth and the indiscriminate aerial bombing of thousands of civilians is absolutely intolerable. there is no doubt about russia’s core responsibility for these criminal actions. therefore, the question of lifting any european sanctions against russia should be off the table. just the opposite, these crimes warrant more measures at the eu level, targeted at individuals and entities enabling the crimes against the syrian people. i am sure that russian intelligence chiefs, whom some colleagues wanted to take off the eu sanctions list a few months ago, are among them. like it or not, sanctions are one of the very few instruments the eu has in this situation. we do not have either the military capability, or the political will, to seriously project power which would help to stabilise syria. our leverages are economic and legal, so we should use them. make no mistake, the reason for russia’s intervention in syria is obvious. europe has become a target of a weapon of mass migration. bombing hospitals and marketplaces drives people out of syria and creates more waves of refugees. putin knows too well that sooner rather than later these refugees will undermine stability within our societies. his main target has been, and remains, us, the west – our values, our institutions. it is now up to us to be resilient and respond to this challenge.
mr president, i want to address also the draft resolution on syria by six political groups since i find it one-sided and prejudiced. you mention especially russia and the assad regime but do not mention daesh and other radical forces and armed groups. you make an impression that assad’s troops and the air force of russia, which has come there at an official request are at war not with terrorists, but with some phantoms. the losses of the civilian population are awful. nobody denies it. in july, together with colleagues, i visited a hospital in damascus and saw legless and armless people who cannot receive modern artificial limbs because of eu sanctions. a political solution is the only way out of the crisis and of the conflict, including a possible federalisation of syria, which may be useful especially for the kurds.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis brought to light the role played by international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in financial stability and growth, in particular the rules regarding the recognition of losses incurred in the banking system. we need further progress in this field.
in writing. ‒ in my view, this is a resolution of eu weakness. we can only condemn and deplore. what kind of instruments do we have? our diplomatic possibilities are very small, military possibilities are at zero level. as for refugees from syria, now the eu has concluded the deal with turkey not to allow refugees from syria to eu. thus, the only way we can help syrians is to finance humanitarian programmes, but the amount of money for these purposes is very limited compared with eu countries’ financial possibilities. i think we have to show our attitude with real actions and not just with empty resolutions.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco. mitigating climate change is not just a european challenge, but a global one. it is therefore important to recognise that global responsibility for climate change and the rise in average air temperatures is shared by all. no matter how much europe reduces, for example, the same co2 emissions, it may not reduce the global co2 emissions, because in the same moment, in another region of the world, the emissions will have doubled. that is why i believe that a global agreement to mitigate climate change is a very welcome initiative. however, in this resolution i am voting against the paragraph which states that even more funding is needed to combat climate change by introducing a financial transaction tax in the eu.
in writing. ‒ it is very important for the eu not just to criticize others, but to demonstrate adherence to the paris agreement, especially through revisiting its own mid- and long-term goals and policy instruments, and to start this process as early as possible to allow for a comprehensive debate in which parliament should play a crucial role, in partnership with representatives from national, regional and local authorities, civil society and the business sector.
in writing. ‒ i support report author’s suggestion to continue with further scientific research into non-intentionally added substances as, in contrast to known hazardous substances, their identity and structure, especially in plastics, are often unknown and extend the concept of vulnerable groups to pregnant and breastfeeding women and to include the potential effects of low-dose exposure and non-monotonic dose responses in the risk assessment criteria.
in writing. ‒ i share the rapporteur’s position that the rising number of infringements relating to late transposition shows that prompt transposition continues to be a challenge in numerous member states and requires an effective response by the commission. timely and correct transposition of eu law into national legislation and a clear domestic legislative framework should be a priority for the member states.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation. the european commission is committed to coming up with a better and clearer solution for the placing and free circulation of a genetically modified product or product containing genetically modified raw materials on the european union market. i believe that the mandate of the european commission has sufficient resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
in writing. – i agree that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate and support calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg for a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation. i believe that the mandate of the european commission has sufficient resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products. the european commission therefore has the power to come up with a better and clearer solution for the placing and free circulation of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials on the european union market. the effects of these products on human health and the environment must be clearly identified.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate and support calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ as i have supported other resolutions calling for the withdrawal of the european commission's implementing decisions on the placing on the market of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials, i have also supported this one. i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products. the european commission therefore has the power to come up with a better and clearer solution for the placing and free circulation of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials on the european union market. there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable. that is why i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg for a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation.
in writing. ‒ i also consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. i agree that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate and support calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ as i have supported other resolutions calling for the withdrawal of the european commission's implementing decisions on the placing on the market of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials, i have also supported this one. i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products. the european commission therefore has the power to come up with a better and clearer solution for the placing and free circulation of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials on the european union market. there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable. that is why i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg for a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation.
in writing. ‒ i agree that commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take into account frequently expressed national concerns which do not relate only to issues associated with the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
in writing. ‒ as i have supported other resolutions calling for the withdrawal of the european commission's implementing decisions on the placing on the market of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials, i have also supported this one. i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products. the european commission therefore has the power to come up with a better and clearer solution for the placing and free circulation of a genetically modified product or a product containing genetically modified raw materials on the european union market. there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable. that is why i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg for a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the commission's implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take into account frequently expressed national concerns which do not relate only to issues associated with the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
madam president, colleagues, commissioner, i would like to thank rapporteur mr richard howitt for a very balanced report. this report stresses all the positive changes that have happened in iran recently, outlining future cooperation between the eu and iran. but from the other side it contains criticisms and highlights the challenges that we face. in spite of some unsolved problems, i would like to say that it is a success story for our diplomacy. in the last year iranian and european diplomacy managed to raise our relations from a very low point and to give our relations a positive trend. iran is our partner in the fight against isis and al-nusra, which are designated terrorist organisations by the united nations security council. the european parliament should play an important role in the process of establishing a friendly cooperation framework with iran in which we can receive positive results in the issues we are interested in or resolve problems we are concerned about. in this way we should be wise and patient and try to avoid the temptation to use offensive language. why? because emotional criticism will lead us to the opposite direction. it helps iranian conservatives, who are very strong and who resist any improving relations with the western world. i do not think that this is what we really want. that is why i would like to invite you to support richard howitt’s balanced and wise approach.
my fellow citizens! on the basis of a petition signed by more than 20 000 latvians and estonians, the petitions committee of the european parliament will organise a special hearing next january, where one of the main topics will be the situation of the so-called disabled in estonia and latvia. these are people, most of whom have lived in these countries all their lives and were even born there. for a quarter of a century, almost 15% of the population of latvia and 8% of the population of estonia have not had the right to participate in elections, including the european parliament elections. the appeal includes a call to end the injustice against these people by allowing them to at least vote in the european parliament elections. the european parliament has at least begun to observe the turmoil at home, as the recent debates on the question of lawlessness in hungary and poland have set a precedent. it is therefore time to start a serious debate in europe about the non-citizens of latvia and estonia.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal to launch the automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark. denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i fully support this suggestion.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal to launch the automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark. a successful pilot run has been carried out by denmark with germany. i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. it is very important to make easier travelling between eu and china.
in writing. ‒ the aim of proposal is to help those member states mostly affected by the financial crisis to be able to continue with the implementation of the programmes on the ground, hence injecting funds into the economy. i welcome the commission proposal as a focussed and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by two member states.
in writing. ‒ it is very important to get statistics on the transport of goods and passengers by rail in order to monitor and develop the common transport policy. to this end it is necessary to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european statistics on rail transport and to align it with the new institutional context.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the statistical coverage of inland waterway transport, parliament stated that data collected must deal with both goods and passengers. i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that customs legislation is fully harmonised, its enforcement and the lawful imposition of sanctions lie within the ambit of member states' national law. the proposal sets a common legal framework for the treatment of customs infringements and sanctions. it aims to bridge the gap between different legal regimes through a common platform of rules and thus contribute to an equal treatment between economic operators in the eu, as well as the effective protection of the union's financial interests and law enforcement in the field of customs.
in writing. ‒ following the november 2015 attacks in paris and those of march 2016 in brussels, all institutions have reviewed their security needs in the short to medium term. draft amending budget no 3 for the year 2016 proposes to reinforce the budget for security for a total of eur 15.8 million. i support the position that we have to find additional money for security.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank rapporteur richard howitt for a very balanced report. this report stresses all positive changes that have happened in iran recently and outlines future cooperation between eu and iran but, on the other side, it contains criticisms and highlights the challenges that we face. in spite of some unsolved problems, i would like to say that it is a success story for our diplomacy. in recent years european and iranian diplomacy managed to raise our relations from a very low point and to give them a positive trend. the european parliament should play an important role in the process of establishing friendly cooperation framework with iran in which we can achieve positive results in the issues we are interested in or resolve problems we are concerned about. in this way we should be wise and patient and try to avoid a temptation to use offensive language.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must be a political priority for the eu institutions. it is necessary to fill gaps that may exist in the fight against organised crime and corruption and to improve cross-border judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in order to address the human rights protection gap which migrants face, we urged national governments and parliaments to abolish punitive legal schemes which criminalise migration. we requested the implementation of short, medium and long-term solutions to ensure safe conditions for migrants.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament reaffirmed the urgent need to act in a continuous, effective and coherent manner at all levels, including national, european and international, in order to effectively address human rights abuses by international corporations when they appear. i welcome the commission’s active cooperation with the participation of parliament and the council together with other international bodies to achieve a fundamental convergence of csr initiatives in the long term and the exchange and promotion of good corporate practice regarding csr.
in writing. ‒ the further diversification of the eu’s natural gas supply remains a key objective, particularly as domestic production in the eu will continue to decline in coming decades. but this diversification is not the aim. from my point of view the real aim has to be a low energy price for consumers. it is the real test of new initiatives.
in writing. ‒ it is important to ensure effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources. control procedures must be transparent, even-handed and standardised, allowing member states to be put on an equal footing as regards controls on their fishermen, and rules on control should be simpler, and more comprehensive and consistent.
in writing. ‒ we think that the eu needs to enhance the connectivity and accessibility of the infrastructure for transport to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development. parliament considered that the use of eu funding must reflect the real investment needs for completing the ten-t core network by 2030 in the region.
in writing. ‒ in my view the most important part of the report is the recommendation to adopt a union pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that consists of: an annual report on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights with country-specific recommendations incorporating the reporting by the european union agency for fundamental rights, the council of europe, and other relevant authorities in the field; an annual inter-parliamentary debate on the basis of the european drf report; arrangements for remedying possible risks and breaches, as provided for by the treaties, including the activation of the preventative or corrective arms of article 7 teu; drf policy cycle within the union institutions. but there is still a lack of enforcing mechanism. without it effectiveness will be low.
my fellow citizens! exceptional expenditure may not be financed at the expense of the european union's cohesion and agriculture policies. it is essential to maintain a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. competitiveness, growth, employment, security, external border control, these are important issues. it is therefore necessary to maintain and to create additional funds for these areas. 92 per cent of the total european fund for strategic investments went to the old european countries: germany, france, the united kingdom, italy and spain. this increases inequality even further. the funds must also be made available to eastern europe, including the baltic states. the use of financial instruments should be encouraged, but it is essential to maintain grants, which are particularly important for small countries. i would also point out that we expect the commission to inform parliament of the possible impact of 'brexit' on the european budget.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs to meet the needs of the migration and address the refugee challenge and slow economic growth as well as investment in research and fighting youth unemployment. for this purpose we must restore all cuts proposed by the council to the draft budget.
in writing. i have already advocated increasing funding for agriculture and the protection of external borders, but not for cohesion, science and research. i am therefore particularly pleased that the 2017 budget supported the proposal for additional funding of eur 600 million for the dairy sector to help farmers overcome the difficulties faced by the market. it is essential to maintain a balance between the long-term priorities of competitiveness, growth, employment and new challenges such as migration and security, which will require additional funding in the next year's budget and in subsequent years. but the extra funding from the eu budget and the financing of extraordinary expenditure must not come at the expense of cohesion and agriculture. the youth employment initiative, which is already working successfully in latvia to help young people improve their skills and integrate into the labour market, as well as research and infrastructure projects, should be increased in funding. it is therefore of particular importance that the funding under the connecting europe facility (cef) and the framework programme 'outlook 2020' be renewed. at the same time, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) should be improved so that it can also reach eastern europe, including the baltic states.
in writing. ‒ i support mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist estonia in respect of redundancies in the manufacture of petroleum and chemicals products.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed directive, which aims at the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states on the accessibility of websites from public sector bodies, in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it lays down the rules according to which member states must ensure that the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies respect the accessibility requirements.
in writing. ‒ i share the general objective of the proposed regulation to deal with the increased risks facing the phytosanitary sector and resulting from the emergence of new pests and new diseases. the important aims are to modernise phytosanitary trade-related instruments, either within or from third countries, favouring a risk-based approach.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s focus in its 2016 country-specific recommendations on the three main priorities to further strengthen economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially balanced structural reforms and encouraging responsible public finances. i think that european semester is very useful instrument. on the example of latvia we can see that many reforms started after recommendation from european commission was received. the commission should do more to ensure economic growth and necessary reforms in the eu member countries and also take into consideration specific of the countries.
madam president, elections in belarus were not free and fair. we should not pretend that they were and that the parliament is fully legitimate. but we should recognise that there have been changes in the overall atmosphere. it has become more permissive and symbolically, for the first time in 20 years, two members of the democratic opposition were allowed – i underline ‘allowed’ – to have seats in the parliament. therefore, we should expand the critical engagement with all segments of belarusian society, from the civil activists to the government, to encourage more reforms. in my opinion, one of the key tests for releasing the full potential of eu-belarus relations will be further implementation of longstanding osce and council of europe recommendations. in due time, before the next local elections in spring 2018, we should consistently insist on this. i would also like to address a particular problem we are having in relations with belarus, such as building a nuclear power plant with questionable standards of safety right on the border with the eu. i would like to call on the commission and the european external action service to coordinate more efficiently their actions and to use all leverages so as not to let a ticking time bomb be created on our doorsteps.
chairman! my dear colleagues! i want to ask you to slow down, because 40 minutes ago today, in my country, latvia, it was exactly three years since the supermarket collapse in latvia that killed 54 people. 16 children were partially or partially orphaned and 3 were completely orphaned. in this room is commissioner dombrovski, who was then prime minister and remembers this tragic moment... (speech suspended) it was the greatest tragedy in the history of latvia since the restoration of independence and the greatest tragedy in eastern europe in the last 30 years. mr president, if you do not mind, i would ask those members who are still in the chamber to take a moment of silence to remember the victims of this tragedy which took place in riga, latvia, three years ago.
madam president, this week we will vote on the fotyga report which accuses russia of engaging in propaganda against the west. but where is the condemnation of anti-russian propaganda? one recent example: on 11 november 2016 my country, latvia, celebrated bear slayer’s day, which commemorates the victory of latvian independence fighters in 1919 over the troops of german-backed warlord pavel bermont-avalov. on 14 november the financial times europe published an article saying that bear slayer’s day honoured latvian freedom fighters who secured independence against russian forces. this year, us troops were in riga for the commemoration — part of nato’s attempt to reassure the baltic states in the face of a ‘renewed threat from the big bear to the east’ (end of quote). but bermont-avalov did not represent any russian government, neither that of imperial russia nor that of soviet russia. his idea was to create a pro-german baltic duchy. the blatant russophobic propaganda based on false historical facts must be punished, a serious manifestation of racism and xenophobia. we must not allow historic misrepresentation to stand in the way of reconciliation.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. you guys! all over europe we have a problem or a challenge with so-called officers. offshore is a way for individuals to hide their income. whether to launder illicit funds, to finance terrorism, or simply to avoid paying honest taxes. we have adopted a law - a european law - a directive which will create a so-called beneficial ownership register, which will show who the individuals behind any company are throughout the european union. it is a very serious instrument to help fight against this illicit money. but, colleagues, we must also remember that when we fight money laundering, when we fight the financing of terrorism and when we fight tax evasion, we must always weigh in on what we do to promote this fight, but we must not unnecessarily infringe on the right to privacy of individuals. there is no written rule about where to draw the line, but it is important to realize that we must always weigh the matter in the balance. because we have to make illegal activity even more difficult at the same time, we have to make it so that it's not easy to avoid paying taxes, but we can't go into the second trap, which is to simply ignore the interests of, let's say, the 99 percent of the population who are really honest and do everything the right way. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ such agreements have the objective of supporting and strengthening action by the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of these amendments to establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks in the light of the evaluation of the plan carried out by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries.
in writing. ‒ this proposal will make further progress in the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. for too long, member states have turned a blind eye on tax evasion, leaving the circulation of huge flows of funds undetected.
in writing. ‒ monetary policy alone is not the appropriate tool to solve the structural problems of the european economy. sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reforms oriented towards increasing productivity are the only way of bringing about sustainable economic improvements in these member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission green paper on retail financial services and stated that its publication is timely, given the need to work proactively at all stages of the policymaking process in order to respond efficiently and adequately to developments in such an innovative and fast-changing market.
in writing. ‒ the cost of non-europe in defence and security is estimated at eur 26.4 billion annually, as the result of duplication, overcapacity and barriers to defence procurement. it is the good platform for cooperation that can reduce unnecessary spending. but i am against imposing an obligation on member states to spend 2% of gdp for defence.
in writing. ‒ i support the efforts of the waterborne passenger transport sector to switch to cleaner, energy-efficient ships with lower emissions, developed as part of a european framework aimed at making waterborne transport greener.
in writing. ‒ i support the efforts made to ensure that all actors concerned have access to information on transparency of development cooperation programming, funding mechanisms, projects and aid flows, in particular in the context of the international aid transparency initiative and the setting-up of the ‘eu aid explorer’ website. major steps still need to be taken in this regard, and called for further significant efforts be urgently made by all donors to make information and data more accessible, timely and comparable.
madam president, i would like to praise vice—president mogherini for the great work done by the small team east stratcom in the external action service. i would also like to praise ms fotyga for her excellent report. i believe that the very small amount of money spent on the work of the team is some of the most efficiently used in the eu budget. however, the strategic communication efforts remain seriously underfunded and understaffed. countering the hybrid information operations is critical for preserving our democracies, and indeed our union. i therefore call on vice—president mogherini immediately and significantly to increase the resources allocated to this task, particularly to the task of countering the billions of propaganda dollars spent by putin’s agencies.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! so far, i think the european union has an unwavering moral position that propaganda can be fought with facts and objectivity. when i saw this report, i knew i was wrong. this is what real propaganda looks like! one report linked the terrorist organization to a particular country as a brilliant propaganda device. the main objective is to make it clear that russia and daesh are one and the same. another propaganda tactic is to make it seem that the problem is confined to one country. except for daesh and russia, no other examples are mentioned, although the title of the report refers to third parties. does this mean that no one in the world uses propaganda anymore? i doubt that very much. therefore, the report cannot be described as objective and comprehensive. we are being offered a low-quality propaganda product which, if adopted, will discredit the european union. and if parliament votes in favour, then in the next report among those who use propaganda, we can safely mention the european union.
thank you madam president. in my opinion, all red lines are crossed in the texts under discussion here. the enormous number of resolutions adopted by this parliament critical of russia and the russian people has remained in my memory. but a resolution so offensive in both form and content is a new development for the european parliament. the very principle of freedom of expression and information is challenged in this resolution. russia is accused of – and i quote – ‘aggressively employing a wide range of tools and instruments, such as think tanks and special foundations [...], special authorities [...] multilingual tv stations [...]’ – end of quote. but every state has its think tanks, special foundations, special authorities dealing with compatriots living abroad, and its tv stations. it is impossible to understand what happens if you watch only channels like cnn, bbc, euronews, tdf and france24. for example, the coverage by those channels of events in aleppo and mosul is based on evident double standards, so the russia today channel effectively contributes to the principle of media pluralism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the decision to ask the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union – ceta. we must be sure that this agreement corresponds to european law before we vote for it.
in writing. ‒ over 400 000 europeans die prematurely every year due to the bad quality of the air they breathe. this is why the european parliament passed a new law to reduce the ceiling of dangerous pollutants allowed in eu member states. i backed the new law because it will save lives and also public money: national governments pay between eur 300 and eur 900 billion every year in health-related costs.
in writing. ‒ it is important to establish global standards and principles for the prudential regulation of banks. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid any repeat of the enormous bailouts witnessed during the crisis.
in writing. ‒ european countries have to decide whether european countries need to create common army or not. the lisbon treaty creates the possibility to take some steps in this direction. i support steps to eliminate duplication, overcapacity in defence and security and barriers to defence procurement. but i am against imposing an obligation on member states to spend 2% of gdp for defence.
in writing. ‒ russia has been engaged in anti-western propaganda for some time. this is most evident in the russian border states that were formerly part of the soviet union, including latvia. this propaganda is nothing more than social disinformation designed to divide society. i believe that the european parliament's resolution is a step in the right direction to combat this propaganda, which is why i supported it in the plenary. the first step in successfully fighting propaganda is to be aware that such an information war is being waged and to inform the public about it. the european union must take appropriate steps to counter the kremlin's heavy artillery of disinformation, but people themselves must assess the information, its content and its objectivity.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted against a low-quality propaganda product that discredits the european union. one report linked the terrorist organization to a particular country as a brilliant propaganda device. the main objective is clear: to show that russia and daesh are one and the same. so far, i think the european union has an unwavering moral position that propaganda can be fought with facts and objectivity. when parliament voted on this report, i realised that i was wrong.
on behalf of the ppe group - the president! you guys! imagine that our goal is not just to run a marathon, but to run a marathon in under three hours. if we want to achieve this goal, there are certain things that we simply won't do: we won't drink beer every day, we'll stop smoking. we know we can't eat just frozen dumplings. if you want to achieve your goal, you have to be consistent in your actions and you have to stick to those actions, otherwise you will not achieve your goal. in the european union, we have set ourselves the goal of creating a so-called energy union - like running a marathon. the energy union has several objectives at once: to reduce import dependency, to reduce co2 emissions and to increase competition between energy suppliers to ensure that consumers have the lowest possible prices. so it is absolutely incomprehensible that three things are happening or not happening on the commission's part that are actually delaying this energy union. the first is what happens to the peace? will there be a peace treaty with gazprom or not? gazprom has long abused its dominant position by making eastern europe pay much higher prices for gas. we read in the press that a peace agreement is possible, where he doesn't have to pay anything at all. what's that? how does that compare to our goals? the second is this nord stream 2 pipeline. the european commission, all the time you said: 'well, it has to be relevant, it has to be relevant...' he's not fit for purpose! clear and bright, black and white, it must be said! and third, the expansion of the opel gas pipeline for gazprom. all three of these things are working against our goals of achieving the energy union. it's like a marathon runner smoking every day instead of training.
in writing. ‒ i support parliament’s position that the european union should make macrofinancial assistance of a maximum amount of eur 350 million available to jordan instead of the eur 200 million that the commission has proposed. jordan is now in a very difficult situation because of the war in syria. but jordan remains a stable state that manages to help a lot of syrian refugees.
in writing. ‒ the institutions for occupational retirement provision play an important role in the long-term financing of the union’s economy and in providing secure retirement benefits for citizens of the union. member states should take into account the objective for all institutions of ensuring the intergenerational balance of occupational pension schemes, by aiming to have an equitable spread of risks and benefits between generations.
in writing. ‒ the situation in syria remains bad. let’s ask ourselves the question what we, the european union, can do to stop the bloody war in this state. we don’t have any instruments at all! we don’t have influence on the key players on the ground like the usa, russia, iran, turkey and saudi arabia have. we don’t have military forces that we are ready to deploy. our diplomatic possibilities to stop this conflict are very small. let’s be frank, we can’t solve this conflict with resolutions.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against the resolution on eu-turkey relations, because the main message or call of this resolution is to freeze the accession negotiations with turkey. i believe that such a decision is shortsighted, given turkey's role in stopping the uncontrolled flow of migrants. although there are still human rights violations in turkey, i believe that this step was not the right one from a strategic point of view. the european union and turkey have an agreement that turkey will help stop and control the flow of illegal refugees, but the european union will speed up turkey's accession talks, and i therefore believe that this resolution does not send the right signal and incentive to the turkish side to implement this agreement.
in writing. ‒ since the attempted coup the turkish authorities have arrested ten members of the turkish grand national assembly belonging to the opposition party hdp and some 150 journalists; 2 386 judges and prosecutors and 40 000 other people have been detained, of whom more than 31 000 remain under arrest; 129 000 public employees either remain suspended (66 000) or have been dismissed (63 000), according to the commission’s turkey 2016 report. but we are very polite and careful. why? because erdoğan can open the doors and allow millions of migrants to go to the eu, but the eu still cannot adopt a common position about migration policy.
in writing. ‒ the convention will not fulfil its main task – to stop violence against women – if state authorities do not adopt supporting amendments in their legislation, and police, judges and other institutions do not ensure its realisation. i think it is important to share good practices between the member states, because we do not need just talk about stopping violence against women, but real results.
in writing. ‒ i support efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency, especially to make the workings of the european central bank more transparent and compliant with a high standard of governance. i agree that the european ombudsman should add to future annual reports a categorisation of complaints outside the mandate of the ombudsman’s office, since this would allow members of the european parliament an overview of problems affecting eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the current vat system, in particular as it is applied by large corporations to cross-border transactions, is vulnerable to fraud. according to a commission study, mtic fraud alone is responsible for a vat revenue loss of approximately eur 45-53 billion annually. the estimated 'vat gap' amounts to around eur 170 billion annually, and better digital technologies are becoming available to help close this gap. administrative cooperation among member states in fighting vat fraud is still not efficient when it comes to coping with intra-eu vat evasion and fraud mechanisms, or to managing cross-border transactions or trading. i support the call on the commission to carry out more monitoring visits to member states, selected on a risk basis, when assessing administrative cooperation agreements.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and the conservation of species. it is a serious and growing threat to global security. i welcome the commission action plan against wildlife trafficking. we have to recognise that wildlife crime is a serious and growing threat and to address it with the greatest political urgency.
in writing. ‒ transport businesses face considerable challenges in order to respond to the increasing demand for mobility within the constraints of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements. we have to develop cooperation and communication platforms in order to advise and train smes with regard to different funding schemes, grants and internationalisation and to promote innovations in the sharing economy.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and belarus need to be revised. belarusians have to do their work on democratisation, human rights and open elections. but the european union also has much to do on the path to normalisation of our relations. the eu’s attitude to belarus is symptomatic. often it was a mix of ignorance and arrogance. one shining example is the question of participation of the belorussian parliament in euronest. there are still deep discussions in the european parliament on whether to invite the newly—elected belorussian parliament representatives to take part in euronest meetings or not. i think that the commission approach of critical involvement is strategically right. involvement, not arrogance, will give us positive results.
my dear colleagues! i'm not going to let you down. one of the objectives of sustainable development is to ensure that all people have access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy services. african countries are currently facing huge energy supply constraints that are severely hampering their development. the continent of africa is developing rapidly and is experiencing a demographic explosion. together with weak education and health systems, the underdeveloped energy supply creates a vicious circle of poverty from which it is very difficult for africans to escape. colleagues, even a relatively small investment in energy supply can bring enormous economic benefits and significantly improve the living and working conditions of many people on the african continent. it's not just charity on the european side. sustainable development in africa will help mitigate the migration crisis and create new opportunities for our businesses in the future. the european union's energy development initiative aims to provide an additional 500 million people with access to sustainable energy by 2030. half a billion people! and will provide eur 3.5 billion in energy development assistance from 2014 to 2020. we have a goal and money. it is therefore important that the 30 programmes envisaged work accurately and efficiently. here, parliament, i mean the european parliament and the commission, must work together to prevent problems and coordinate our efforts to achieve our objectives. it is therefore important for members to get the commission's views and to learn in good time about the difficulties of implementing programmes in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main result of the us presidential election is that the american political elite has been punished for its arrogance and ignorance of the interests of a large part of the population. a few months ago, a similar signal was sent by the people of britain in the referendum on leaving the european union. people didn't vote for donald trump or for brexit, they voted against inequality, injustice and the continued disregard for their opinions. the current political system is lagging behind reality and has become ineffective. not only can it not solve current problems, but it often creates new ones. people do not want to accept the fact that the present system does not bring stability and well-being to their families. society cannot be divided between a small rich minority and a large majority who live in poverty, fear of unemployment and homelessness.
in writing. ‒ one of the main innovations of the umbrella agreement is that it gives the citizens of each contracting party the possibility to appeal in court against both a refusal of access and a refusal of rectification or unlawful disclosure by an authority of the other contracting party. these rights shall be exercised in accordance with the law of the state in which they are invoked. however, this right is not granted to non-eu citizens whose data is transferred to the usa. they also apply to non-citizens of latvia. the us privacy shield is a legal framework that provides for the protection of personal data of individuals and groups of individuals in the united states.
in writing. ‒ the recent earthquakes in italy have devastated cities, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, damaged historical and cultural heritage, and disrupted economic activity. more than 400 victims and 290 fatalities have been reported. i consider that the commission should take all necessary measures to provide italy with immediate assistance from the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ one of the goals of sustainable development is to ensure that all people have access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy services. the eu's 'energy for development' initiative aims to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people by 2030 and to provide eur 3.5 billion in energy development assistance over the period 2014-2020. we have goals and money - now it's important to make the 30 programmes we have planned work accurately and efficiently. here, parliament and the commission must work together to prevent problems and coordinate our efforts to achieve our objectives. it is therefore important for members to receive the commission's views and to learn in good time about the difficulties of implementing programmes.
on behalf of the ppe group - the president! commissioner, please! this initiative by the european commission is perhaps the biggest policy initiative of the last decade. its importance cannot be underestimated. what exactly has driven our energy policy so far over the last 15 or even 20 years? it's been climate policy. the goal of reducing harmful emissions of co2 or climate change is what we do as human beings. and because of this policy, we've subsidized renewable energy, and these technologies have evolved to the point that we now have wind turbines, solar turbines, and so on, that we have a viable alternative to fossil fuels. with this initiative, we will in fact be adding to our policy arsenal by introducing another principle that could be peacefully interpreted as price competition. now we're also going to think about how to make sure that the consumer and the industry have the lowest prices possible, and the answer to that, and the way we're going to do that, is to introduce more competition, by allowing the market to determine what capacity there should be in the space. we know that subsidies have been necessary up to now, but now on the eve of the day we have to look at where and how we can maybe step back from that and let the market take over what the subsidies have started because the market has matured for it.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol constitutes an economic, financial and technical cooperation measure, which gives access to union financial assistance, pursuant to the union programmes. i support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the regulation must have the following aims: to prevent significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems and ensure the long-term conservation of deep sea fish stocks; to minimise and where possible prevent by-catches; to apply the precautionary and ecosystem approaches to fisheries management; and to ensure that the union measures aimed at the sustainable management of deep-sea fish stocks are consistent with resolutions adopted by the general assembly of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ parliament is taking several steps forward on transparency. meps will be banned from taking a paid lobbying job during their mandate. after they step down, their privileges as ex-meps – such as having free access to the parliament – will be denied if they become lobbyists after their mandate. rapporteurs will be able to list the people they have met while writing their report. i think the formula is simple: more transparency – more trust.
in writing. ‒ the european union sees far beyond its borders, but often fails to see what is happening at home. what are the reasons for this shortsightedness? i think there are two: the inability to see and the unwillingness to see. the eu's lack of visibility was revealed this year when it emerged that there were no eu institutions that could independently and professionally identify problems in hungary and poland. before joining the eu, candidate countries had to meet the copenhagen criteria. once a country has joined the eu, it turns out that no one looks at whether it still meets these criteria. the eu treaties state that the member states share common values, including human rights. if we don't even care about what's happening in the eu, it means we're overreacting and human rights are not our shared values. latvia has a large population of former soviet citizens who live in collective status and have not been able to vote in parliamentary, european parliament or local elections for a quarter of a century. if such a situation were to arise in a non-eu country, the european parliament would certainly adopt a damning resolution. because it's an eu member state, there's a silence. because the eu has an unwritten rule: you won't see my problems, and i won't see yours, but we'll show our principledness in our external actions. this arch needs to be repaired. let's not talk about activities for now, but at least practice spotting problems.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries in europe provide more than 12 million full-time jobs, which amounts to 7.5 % of the eu’s workforce, creating approximately eur 509 billion in value added to gdp. cultural and creative industries in the eu employ 2.5 times more people than automotive manufacturers and five times more than the chemical industry. the european parliament called on the commission to introduce an umbrella scheme that bridges the gap between r&d, european creative content production and technological innovation in the media field.
in writing. ‒ parliament considers the situation in the area of women’s rights in the eastern partnership countries to be in need of improvement. it points out that profound economic changes and economic uncertainty have had a negative effect on the economic situation of women, leading to shortcomings in their equality. members called on the eastern partnership countries to overcome gaps in their anti-discrimination frameworks.
my fellow citizens! my dear mrs. mogherini! i think the main question to be answered is whether the countries of the european union really want a common foreign and defence policy. the problem is that in many cases the answer is still no. member states still want to live in their own world and do not want to lose their sovereignty. the bad news for these countries is that the world is changing and europe's influence in the world is rapidly declining for a variety of reasons - in terms of population, in terms of economic size and in the military sphere. this is neither bad nor good - it is the reality - but europeans and politicians still see europe as the centre of the world, which can dictate its rules to other countries and regions of the world. that is no longer the case, and practitioners who encounter the paranormal every day can only confirm that. it is good for an old person to feel young and vigorous, but it is much worse to continue to act young. but he also has his strengths, such as experience and patience. the number of instruments of influence in european foreign policy is very limited. we still have strengths in technology, education, an inclusive internal market, influence in international organisations, the ability to finance projects, etc., but europe is unfortunately losing its influence with each step. the question is how quickly europe will lose its position to other great powers and where the new balance will eventually be. i think that is the main point of this report.
in writing. – two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and of ireland respectively with regard to the commission proposal. the third amendment aligns the entry into application of the amending regulation: thus, the amending regulation will enter into force on 26 june 2017.
in writing. – european parliament recalled that ratifying the textiles protocol would mean including textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded between uzbekistan and the eu in 1999. that title foresees: trade free of quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trade at market-related prices, a safeguard clause, prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security. i fully support developing of cooperation between eu and uzbekistan.
in writing. – the committee on international trade adopted the on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol and i support this position.
in writing. ‒ the eu-norway agreement on the skagerrak, allowing fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to fish in each other’s waters, has been updated. the new agreement, aimed at bringing fisheries management in the skagerrak into line with international principles of coastal state jurisdiction, was signed in january 2015 and has been applied provisionally pending its entry into force. parliament gave consent for the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, and support in individual criminal investigations. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant after the bankruptcy and closure of bosal. i support this proposal.
in writing. a major step towards the opening of the internal rail passenger market by 2020 is planned, which will facilitate the provision of rail services in all member states of the european union (eu). since 2005, the increase in rail transport services prices has reached almost 50%, which is extremely high. the new rail rules will help eu member states to open up their rail transport markets and become more competitive, so we will all benefit as train travel becomes cheaper and more attractive. the railways have played a historically important role in latvia. its history is inextricably linked to the history of our country the opening of the first railway signalled latvia's move towards rapid economic and industrial growth, access to education and wider travel opportunities. therefore, in supporting the resolution on the creation of a european railway area, i consider it a priority to further develop our railway infrastructure and integrate it with other eu countries. because right now we're very limited in planning our next trip to europe by train. i believe that the new rules will generate more investment in the railway sector and improve the quality of services. trains are an environmentally friendly mode of transport and increasing the use of rail will help reduce waste across europe.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopt the following amendments to the commission proposal: research projects to which preference will be given include the following: projects on the impact on the employment of workers and the local community of operations for mining, the impact on the health and safety of workers and of the local community of operations for mining.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has expressed serious concern that the protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide. parliament has called on all the eu institutions and member states to act on their commitments to promote democracy and the rule of law, protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development by all peaceful means, and to place human rights at the centre of the eu’s relations with all third countries.
madam president, i voted against this report which advocates a policy giving the eu a negative role regarding the current conflicts in its neighbourhood. moreover, this report also provokes such conflicts, in particular within its own territory. how can they understand the following words in paragraph 36, and i quote: ‘cooperation with russia over the recent iran nuclear deal holds out hope for improved relations in other areas, including with nato, in order to defuse tensions such as those in the baltic, syria and ukraine’. putting the baltics, an eu region, into the same line with syria and ukraine, states where civil war is taking place, is playing with fire. moreover, it is an attempt to start a fire and therefore it is completely unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ europeans and politicians still see europe as the centre of the world, which can dictate its rules to other countries and regions of the world. that is no longer the case, and practitioners who encounter the supernatural on a daily basis can attest to that. the number of instruments of influence for european foreign policy is very limited. we still have strengths in technology, education, an inclusive internal market, influence in international organisations, and the ability to finance development projects. but here too, europe is losing its influence with each step. how quickly europe loses its position to other great powers and where the new balance will eventually be will depend on how well european countries manage to overcome their differences and establish a common, truly functioning european foreign policy. this is the main question we must ask ourselves in this report too. the other questions, i think, are secondary.
in writing. europe is currently facing unprecedented external and internal challenges, including interstate conflict, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. the citizens of the european union (eu) are exposed to threats of terrorism, mass flows of refugees and disinformation campaigns designed to divide society. all of this directly affects the well-being of our citizens, which is why we need a foreign policy that is able to defend our interests and values. i supported the resolution, which calls, among other things, for eu member states to build mutual trust and the ability to speak with one voice in response to developments in foreign policy. the eu can only be a strong global partner on a par with other major powers if all member states are united and act together in pursuing a strong eu foreign and security policy. latvia is directly experiencing the fact that russia continues to ignore the sovereignty of its neighbours and openly challenges the peace and security order in europe and the world. the kremlin's official propaganda portrays the west as an enemy and actively seeks to undermine european unity. i believe that sanctions have been and are an effective foreign policy tool and should therefore be maintained as long as russia continues to violate international law. i support the view that the eu's foreign policy should be based on three pillars: diplomacy, development and, of course, defence. in particular, it must be made clear to the russian government in a clear and unambiguous manner that its actions in ukraine and its air maneuvers in the baltic states will not go unnoticed.
in writing. ‒ the european union does not currently have a genuine safety net to curb market volatility. noting that farmers will be increasingly exposed to price volatility, the european parliament deemed it necessary to adopt a more incisive and coherent policy, with targeted instruments at eu and national level. the european parliament has underlined the importance of maintaining decoupled direct aids under the current cap, together with the single area payment scheme, which constitute compensation for public services and a vital component in securing the income of farmers and providing them with a degree of financial stability.
mr president, the council’s idea to link the free visa regime between the eu and georgia and ukraine with a suspension mechanism was a bad idea, as a result of which there has been an unpredictable delay of the visa-free regime with these countries. georgia and ukraine fulfilled all the conditions and are waiting for you to fulfil your commitments. however, while some eu countries have publicly declared that they are glad to see these eastern european countries on the way to eu integration, at the same time they have put their feet on the brakes and started to blackmail the european parliament. in this way they are trying to solve their internal political problems. in politics, as in business, a society’s reputation as a reliable partner is a very valuable thing. so the eu’s reputation was seriously damaged in this case. we will not see the negative result immediately, but in connection with other cases of arrogance and neglect, our attitude towards our partners will return to us like a boomerang in the future.
the blue card issue. thank you, madam president. thank you for accepting my blue card application! i just want to clarify: so you want to make the petition committee a mere formality?
chairman! commissioner, colleagues, i have to say something. this year, in referendums and elections in the countries of the european union, we have received a strong signal from the people of europe. a signal that they want to be involved in the decision-making process, that they want the problems that concern them to be solved fairly, including at european level. there are sometimes many intermediaries between the eu authorities and the european people, and much is lost in the chain. as a result, people feel alienated. because they don't understand what the european union institutions are doing and why they can't take action. as the only directly elected institution in the eu, the european parliament must not only play a legislative role, but also work directly with citizens and groups of citizens. the petition is a powerful tool for doing this work and should not become an empty formality. i will therefore always support any proposal that increases the impact and authority of this important instrument of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the council idea to connect the visa-free regime between eu and georgia and ukraine with a visa suspension mechanism was a bad idea, the result of which was the unpredictable delay of the visa-free regime with those countries. georgia and ukraine fulfilled all the conditions and are waiting for the eu to fulfil its commitments. in politics as in business, reputation of reliable partners is very valuable thing. so the reputation of the eu in this case was seriously damaged. we will not see the negative results immediately, but in connection with other cases of arrogance and our neglectful attitude towards our partners, this will return to us like a boomerang in the future.
in writing. ukraine and georgia are important partners of the european union in the field of neighbourhood policy. the current governments of both countries have clearly demonstrated a desire to move closer to europe and a strong commitment to reforms centred on european values, and have shown good capacity in implementing them. unfortunately, the eu has been very slow to grant visa-free travel, which has in turn prevented ukraine and georgia from moving away from the kremlin's political influence. visa liberalisation is an important step towards strengthening the neighbourhood policy. i have always supported the introduction of visa-free travel with ukraine, georgia and kosovo. the successful conclusion of the visa dialogue is now a top priority for cooperation between the eu and its neighbours. i support the report on the review of the visa regime, as such a visa suspension mechanism will allow europe to respond in a timely manner to emergencies. eu member states will be able to update the visa suspension mechanism if cooperation on the return of migrants has decreased or if there are increased risks to europe's internal security.
in writing. ‒ the drug thalidomide was marketed by chemie grünenthal gmbh in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a safe drug to treat morning sickness, headaches, coughs, insomnia and the common cold; whereas it resulted in the death and malformation of thousands of babies when taken by pregnant women in many european countries. the european parliament urges the member states and the commission to coordinate actions and measures seeking to formally recognise and provide compensation to thalidomide survivors.
in writing. ‒ the paediatric medicines regulation has had a substantial impact on paediatric medicine development. the paediatric medicines regulation has helped to improve the overall situation and has led to tangible benefits in respect of a series of childhood diseases; whereas, however, not enough progress has been made in a number of fields, in particular paediatric oncology and neonatology. the european parliament calls on the commission to deliver the report provided on the paediatric medicines regulation in a timely fashion and stresses the need for this report to provide comprehensive identification and an in-depth analysis of the obstacles currently hampering innovation in medicinal products targeting the paediatric population.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as the only directly elected eu institution, must not only play a legislative role, but also work directly with citizens and groups of citizens. petitions are a powerful tool to do this work and should not become an empty formality. i will therefore always support any proposal that increases the impact and authority of this important instrument of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed, in the aviation strategy for europe, to open negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china, and on eu-level air services agreements with china, turkey, mexico, six member states of the gulf cooperation council, armenia, and asean. parliament stressed that it needs to follow the process from the beginning and considered that it is also in the interests of the other institutions [that any concerns of sufficient importance] to call into question parliament’s readiness to grant consent be identified and addressed at an early stage.
mr president, the customs union is a cornerstone of the european union and is essential for the proper functioning of the single market. on 1 may 2016, traders in the european union could see the largest change to european customs procedures in the past 20 years with the introduction of the union customs code. the new legislation aims to facilitate legitimate rate, increase safety and security and rationalise, harmonise and standardise the application of custom controls and decision-making processes across europe. under the union custom code, all communications between custom authorities and businesses will have to be electronic, with the goal of creating a completely paperless custom environment across the eu. it is important to have an independent impact assessment to ensure that the regulatory framework of the eu customs policy is effective, proportionate and fit for purpose, both for member states and for trade operators. the european commission has to step up efforts to create more uniform custom electronic requirements and risk assessment programmes at eu level in order to ensure that the arrival, transit and exit of goods in and out of the eu is registered as effectively as possible. and of course, dear colleagues, merry christmas and happy new year.
