on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, the competition report before us raises two main concerns. the first one is about the scope, the powers and the methods of dg competition. its remit amounts to one of the most powerful tools in the executive kit of the european commission, indeed of the european union. dg competition has the power to set and change market rules within the union affecting a wide range of economic and financial issues. it can, and it does, issue orders to governments and corporations, big and small, regarding decisions they have taken or need to take. it is run by competent technocrats operating under the overall mantle of the commission. in arriving at decisions the dg carries out inquiries and investigations following an opaque process of negotiations that happens mostly behind closed doors. political, economic, social, personal and national factors enter into play. in this, being ‘big’ is of greater account probably than being ‘small’. there is little transparency and hardly any accountability. moreover, there is an overlap between those whose job it is to set the rules and those implementing them. the two roles of setting rules and of implementing them should be institutionally separate and both should adopt more transparent methods. there is an urgent need to review dg competition’s modus operandi as well as to reform its organisation. the second concern that this report raises relates to how state aid rules are being applied to peripheral or isolated regions and islands. the latter should not be treated as if they belonged to the mainstream and better endowed centres of the union. this approach cannot be justified by the argument that structural and cohesion funds already compensate for the disadvantages which these territories are burdened with; they do not. in such regions the sectors of communications, infrastructure, aid to smes, energy, the protection of traditional small-scale initiatives, among others, carry no systemic significance in the context of the continental single market. to apply to these regions the same treatment as for the centre is helping to increase structural disparities between the centre and periphery of the union. this should stop, not least when the states to which such peripheral or isolated territories belong already conform to the rules and procedures of the stability and growth pact. the operations of the commission’s dg competition require much deeper evaluation than can be provided by debates such as this in order to promote reforms and ensure transparency, fairness and accountability.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, colleagues. sometimes i start to think we live in two different worlds because, let's be honest, not yesterday, nine years ago, a european law was passed that was supposed to reduce car pollution. and, today, a technical committee, supposedly made up of experts, decided that it was okay to let our cars continue to pollute up to twice as much as was decided nine years ago. a decision which, with all due respect, is not technical but merely political. as far as i know, politicians are there to see to the welfare of our citizens and, above all, of our children. and i wanted to ask the member states - i wish they were not here - i wanted to ask them, the european leaders, if they are willing to bow to pressure and accept that we will have cars that pollute twice as much as they should by the year 2020. and worse, if they say yes, after the year 2020 cars will continue to pollute much more. this is not the moment to fall to the pressure of the lobbyists. nine years is enough for the car industry to regulate itself. and i ask why it has not done so and what guarantees do we have today?
mr president, in the second half of 2015 the luxembourg presidency and the commission showed great determination in trying to steer the union out of the crisis that broke out in rapid order. however, from the smoothing over of the most recent greek crisis to the refugee crisis, everything was done in firefighting mode. events, not the union, were in charge. unfortunately, the events may have shown that the assumptions of the models we follow no longer fit the realities. they referred to the economic and social realities of the past. the results of national elections over the past six months show that european peoples may have realised this. clearly, when you operate in firefighting mode there is no time to undertake strategic reviews. yet the signs are that the time has also come for such strategic reviews. we need a strategic reflection regarding the assumptions, not the values and the models, not the methods, of the european project; the reach and soft power of the union; a new design for political coherence in europe; immigration policies; the effects of globalisation; the mix of state and private sector; and not least in the areas of job creation.
in writing.– i welcome the luxembourg presidency and all the work they have done in the last 6 months. the pressure on the european union, on our citizens and governments has increased dramatically since you have taken over the presidency. europe had to face the worst ever refugee and humanitarian crisis, inhuman efforts to keep greece away from bankruptcy and in the euro, talks about a potential brexit, terrorist attacks, the growing problem of radicalisation and all that topped with an extremely hostile attitude in many member states forcing governments to close down their borders and to threaten the very existence of the schengen agreement. this is a crucial time for europe to determine its future direction, a direction that will lead the eu and its citizens towards more integration or more disintegration! therefore, i think that the presidency lacked the adequate political will and leadership skills to push member states towards a common european narrative and to help bridge the differences and growing polarity in europe on all those urgent issues, starting with the migration crisis.
in writing.– the digital single market strategy is about the small family business in one of malta’s villages opening itself up to many more consumers; about giving each one of us as consumers more choice of goods and of service providers from the comfort of our own sitting room; also about giving our creative sector a new platform. it is a strategy that reflects how we are already taking our lives online and ensuring that this is done without unnecessary limitations. the strategy does not want to diminish the physical commercial market and is not only about commerce. it addresses data protection, protection of creators and users, research processes and needed skills. most importantly of all it seeks to facilitate a more inclusive society and has the potential of making interaction – commercial, educative, cultural and social – more accessible to all. to facilitate access to online content, we need enhanced portability measures; this is why the commissions’ portability proposal is of key importance, and we need to work towards a better recognition of the potential of the creative industry as well as facilitate accessibility to cultural content for consumers.
in writing.– we are living in a world where digital technologies are offering a new world of opportunities. they can expand our economy and help small and medium-sized companies tap into a potential customer base of 500 million customers within the eu alone. they can provide individuals with the opportunity to develop entrepreneurial ideas and business models. i would like to emphasise once again that the eu and the different member states need to provide the possibility for entrepreneurs to access financing possibility. once again i call upon the commission to ensure that crowdfunding can become a reality. this approach, together with more initiatives to boost entrepreneurship, will help change our culture on what is success whilst promoting an entrepreneurial and innovation culture. it is time to adapt really and truly to the digital age. existing barriers online mean that our citizens are missing out on buying the goods and services they want. self-employed people and start-ups are unable to tap into a wider market. entrepreneurs from all member states need to be provided with the possibility to sell their products on europe’s online marketplaces. practices that forbid our entrepreneurs from registering and selling on specific online marketplaces should not be allowed.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ article 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union states that meps enjoy immunity in the territory of their own state. this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member states.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report regarding the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski as the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution have nothing to do with the position of mr siekierski as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski because on 13 august 2015 the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request made by the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to grant authorisation to take legal action against a member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, in connection with a speeding offence
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ article 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union states that meps enjoy immunity in the territory of their own state. this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member states.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report regarding the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski as the charges concerned were not filed with the intention of causing political damage to the person concerned.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski because on 7 september 2015 the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request made by the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to grant authorisation to take legal action against a member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, in connection with a speeding offence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it introduces viable amendments to the text proposed by the commission. for example, it supports traditional and artisanal fishing gear which has a fairy low impact on the ecosystems and the environment in general and also, among others, provides new methods for the allocation of quotas for each member state. these, and other proposed measures will ensure the effectiveness of the recovery plan adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ as a contracting party since 1996, the european union is bound to adhere to decisions taken by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in order to ensure the conservation of underwater eco-systems under the eu’s common fisheries policy. in the light of iccat’s previously proposed 15-year recovery plan, parliament has been called upon to review proposed legislation based on a number of new iccat amendments to european legislation to further safeguard the conversation of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic, and more specifically, in the mediterranean. for this reason, i voted in favour of gabriel mato’s report on the implementation of a legislative replacement for ec 302/2009 concerning a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna within the aforementioned areas as his recommendations follow the iccat recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this plan because it helps rebuild the dwindling bluefin tuna population. the plan encourages more sustainable fishing practices such as restricting fishing within certain areas and within certain time periods, and using methods that have a low impact on the general marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims at transposing into union law measures of the bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the aim of this report is to transpose into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. in principle, i agree on the contents of the report, but there remain some reservations that go beyond the transposition exercise.
in writing. ‒ i qualify as follows my vote in favour. this proposal provides another opportunity to signal that beyond participating in international conservation efforts of fish stocks, and implementing agreed rules, the european union has another duty: it has to safeguard the way of life and earnings of traditional fishing communities, especially in isolated or peripheral regions and where fishing activities are small scale, conducted by families. applying to them the logic used to regulate corporations is wrong. such a logic makes traditional fisheries appear not to be viable, when they are. speaking from the experience of malta, this has needlessly disrupted the work of fishing communities and weakened the social fabric that kept them cohesive. in recent years, the traditional fishing community has been decimated. quotas, new licences and rules were applied on its operations according to union directives. aquaculture as a source of additional fish supplies is welcome. but economically and socially, it offers no compensation for the loss of traditional fishing. a new effort is needed to create a better framework for the operations of small scale, traditional fishermen. i would urge that this be given priority, before further losses of manpower and resources are experienced in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the report demands greater involvement of the ep in competition matters through the ordinary legislative procedure. i am in favour of competition and support most of the report, but i disagree that competition needs the introduction of ccctb especially when the economy of states is naturally not on a level playing field. moreover, state aid for islands needs to be reviewed especially due to the obstacles that their economy faces.
in writing. ‒ although the european parliament has very limited competences with regard to eu competition policy, as this is mainly in the hands of the commission, the ep drafts a plenary report on all the issues related to competition on an annual basis. in this year’s resolution there is a strong emphasis on fighting social dumping in the labour market, on tackling fragmentation and anti-trust behaviour in the eu digital market, and on state aid and tax issues. i could support the report because of the stance it took on these issues, although i have reservations on tax-related content. it must be noted that the treaty affords flexibility to member states in areas of taxation, namely setting rates and tax bases. i mention this as this is of crucial importance for the survival of certain (sometimes smaller) member states which are isolated from the internal market. therefore, i voted against those amendments that call for a consolidated common corporate tax, otherwise, i voted in favour of this ep report.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this report as despite having a number of positive points, it calls for the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base. this would inevitably mean that it is our union’s smaller economies that will be forced to bear the disproportionate brunt of the policies. in effect it will see smaller efficient economies like ours end up subsidising larger less efficient ones.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy that allows the ep to make political statements on issues related to competition. however, i have my strong reservations and voted against all paragraphs on ccctb. a move towards an eu-wide basis to introduce tax convergence and harmonisation in direct tax matters, imposing a one-size-fits all approach, could put small member states such as malta into a disadvantaged position.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on the roll-call votes ‘subject of the amendment’ 76 third part, ‘subject of the amendment’ 81 second part, and ‘subject of the amendment’ 89. i did so because i was a shadow rapporteur for the annual report on eu competition policy. otherwise i would have voted against.
thank you, mr president, when jean monnet was laying the foundations of the european union, he said that if this process had to start from the beginning, it would start with culture and education. it is important that the future generation be made up of open-minded and diverse members of society; generation to combat social phenomena such as discrimination, violence, radicalism, racism and xenophobia. i therefore wish to congratulate the rapporteur and i voted in favour of this report for the final results. i am very pleased that my idea that we should expose our children to other cultures from an early age, to help them acquire basic life skills and the competences necessary for their personal development, future employment and active citizenship in the european union, has been taken into account. civic education must start at an early age. i therefore believe that educational visits to different member states should be included in the school curriculum, so that children are exposed to and begin to appreciate the diversity of european cultures, languages and history at an early age. this will certainly foster in them the adults and leaders of tomorrow a sense of common belonging and respect for fundamental european values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the eu education ministers’ agreement that the member states need to cooperate and promote our fundamental values and combat radicalisation, marginalisation and intolerance. we must focus on intercultural dialogue and strive for mutual understanding in order to achieve a more tolerant and pluralistic society.
in writing. ‒ with europe increasingly becoming multicultural and with events clearly showing how some european societies have failed to integrate this reality, the role that education plays in addressing these failures becomes even more pertinent. cultural diversity does not exclude unity in society, but requires a society that values the meaning of community. education processes provide key tools in rebuilding communities. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report looks at new ways to approach cultural diversity in a europe based on diverse opinions and political perspectives in order to promote and foster pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and just societies. by focusing on values underlined in international human rights frameworks, the report stressed the promotion of the implementation of the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of diversity of cultural expression. the report highlights the need to recognise the importance of the promotion of common core values which hold our societies together, such as tolerance, freedom, the rule of law, equality, democratic participation and citizen empowerment within the context of cultural, social and religious diversity. the report notes the importance of learning mobility, the promotion of volunteer programmes and rights-based, gender-sensitive learning environments as an essential aspect of promoting eu fundamental values in order to promote the fostering of confidence in one’s own identity on an eu, local and global level. for this reason i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because dialogue between different nations and cultural backgrounds within the union is essential. the resolution will promote intercultural dialogue – so as to prevent xenophobia and racism – while protecting the individuality and different character of each nation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a thorough analysis of the eu financial services regulation. it is true that we need to evaluate and update our regulations in line with the constant changes in the financial sector and these must be coherent, consistent and transparent in order to ensure effective implementation. the report also proposes an interesting notion of a common register which would include references to national implementation of the financial services regulations.
in writing. ‒ since the financial crisis in 2008 several legislative initiatives in the field of eu financial services have been launched to restore financial stability, to strengthen customer protection and to implement the lessons learnt from the crisis. this report is a stocktake of these legislative instruments and their overall impact. it calls on the commission to complete the first assessment by the end of 2016 and to report back on the actual and expected economic effects, as well as on the competitiveness of the european financial sector in the world, on the effect on access to finance for smes and their long-term financing perspectives. financial stability and customer protection need to remain the priority of the legislators. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ an efficient and effective financial services legal framework should ensure financial stability. that is the prerequisite for increasing long-term investment and fostering growth in a competitive eu economy. in this sense, capital markets play an important role in addressing the financing needs of our member states’ economies. this parliamentary report on the stocktaking and challenges of the eu financial services regulation explores the impacts of legislation on financial markets that were adopted in recent years. it emphasises the need to defend the eu from future financial crises, while being effective in financing the needs of the real economy and smes. in fact, a successful capital markets union should enable eu companies of all sizes and at different stages of growth to access eu capital markets in a user-friendly, efficient and low-cost manner. this is why i could support this parliamentary report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to assess the legislative work that was completed in order to stabilise the economy after the financial crisis. this resolution will address the observed limitations of the legislative work and fully evaluate the impact of the legislative measures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on stocktaking and challenges of the eu financial services regulation, which calls on the commission to look at the impact of legislation on financial markets adopted in the recent years and ensure that it continues to defend the eu from crises while being effective and efficient in financing the real economy and smes. on a more general note regarding the capital markets union it is vital to seek new avenues and opportunities to renew the european economy. however, i am not in agreement with introduction of the financial transaction tax in all eu member states
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a financial transaction tax (ftt) is under the enhanced cooperation procedure among 11 member states only. so it is up to those participating countries to reach an agreement amongst them. i cannot agree with an ftt that is only applied by a few countries – it is not in their national interest, though if they believe otherwise and would want to choose that option, they should be left to design the tax as they deem fit. nor can i agree with an ftt applied only by the european union when other blocs and countries do not. in a globalised economy, that is a recipe for undermining competitivity in those areas which apply it. for these reasons, i have voted against paragraph 35.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it rightly points out that women still face indirect discrimination and in 2014 the employment rate for women in the eu was 59.6% in comparison to 70.1% for men. in addition to that, only 31% of entrepreneurs are female. the eu and the national governments need to encourage women to put their ideas into action and most importantly show them what kinds of financial help and expertise are available to them. the report suggests viable plans that can be put into action on national and eu levels and initiatives that will help encourage female entrepreneurship and bring us more towards our europe 2020 targets.
in writing. ‒ data clearly indicates that women’s employment rate remains in large disparity with that of men, that the economic crisis has continued to affect their employment prospects and that we are still off the europe 2020 target. entrepreneurship is however one medium through which women can use their skills and talents as well as obtain the opportunity to be able to fulfil their aspirations as equal partners in society. female unemployment continues to have serious consequences on the living conditions of families. the report identifies measures to facilitate female entrepreneurship. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as entrepreneurial spirit is invaluable and we must continue to foster it throughout europe. with europe lagging behind with a 12% rate of entrepreneurship compared to a 27% rate in the us and 21% in china, it is now more essential than ever that we utilise the female work force to help induce economic growth and job creation in line with the eu’s 2020 targets. the report builds upon the parliament’s 2011 resolution on female entrepreneurship and highlights further initiatives aimed at bridging the gender-gap within enterprise. although there is no conclusive evidence to suggest direct discrimination within the field, substantial evidence suggests that females are still more likely than men to find obstacles such as access to equity finance. the report suggests that extended measures such as more female representation within the finance sector may combat this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because encouraging female entrepreneurship and equality is exceedingly important. this resolution will help combat indirect discrimination that female entrepreneurs face, as well as support and advise female entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the eu still lags behind with an entrepreneurial rate of 12%. female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention, as equal economic independence is not a given while women’s employment rate of 59% is not in line with the 75% target of eu 2020. of all self-employed, only 31% are female. the matera report targets the hurdles and challenges to achieve a higher female entrepreneurship rate, especially access to funding, social entrepreneurship and work/life balance. that is why i have voted in favour of the report on external factors that represent hurdles to european female entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a good analysis of the current situation of youth in europe and it points out promising ideas that should help us tackle the youth unemployment. it rightly notes that there are still almost 5 million unemployed young people but at the same time there are 2 million unfilled vacancies. the report emphasises the importance of education (whether higher or vocational) and calls for a cooperation between the member states and sharing of good practices.
in writing. ‒ skills gap and skills/job mismatch have been identified as two of the main causes of youth unemployment. these represent situations whereby youths do not possess the skills required by industry, or where youths are over qualified for the jobs available. this raises a number of questions about the education systems being followed in member states, including whether education and industry should be considered partners in education, and which skills students need besides subject and thematic knowledge. entrepreneurship skills and vocational training have often been identified as tools to bridge the skills gap. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report raises awareness on the high level of youth unemployment in the eu, since this causes a serious threat for the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. further strengthening and the proper implementation of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative will help to tackle this problem, but so much more needs to be done. better adaptation of skills to the labour market through meaningful training will improve employability and job stability and i believe that we need to train our young people to meet the job demands that are created in the eu. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is vital to fight the high rate of youth unemployment in europe. the resolution advocates more flexible education systems in the union that allow for matching knowledge and skills at any stage of professional careers. in addition, this resolution calls for an organised and even spread of european funds by member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on skills policies for fighting youth unemployment. tackling youth unemployment remains a top priority if europe does not want to risk losing a whole generation. a first step must be the further strengthening and proper implementation of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. it is fundamental to improve the positive long-term benefits of the opportunities offered to young people, concretely through meaningful training courses, that improve their employability, and stable jobs. europe will be a better place if we make equal opportunities a reality for all young people in europe
in the wake of the digital age, the european union must fully realise the potential and opportunities offered by the internet and e—commerce for the further development of the single market. the digital revolution provides a limitless array of opportunities to revolutionise each and every sector of the european economy and to change the life of each and every one of us. completion of the digital single market, making it available to all eu citizens, is essential in achieving a knowledge-driven economy that would foster competitiveness and economic growth and provide highly—qualified jobs in europe. it is important that citizens, consumers, smes and all those in the most vulnerable position are provided with efficient protection and affordable access to redress in the online world. citizens need to better understand how to benefit and take full advantage of the digital revolution by using smart technologies and services. businesses, in particular smes, need to be better prepared for the digitalisation of traditional industries so that europe is equipped for the tasks and demands of the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i also agree with some improvements that still need to be made to the proposal made by the european commission regarding the digital single market, for example in the area of the so called ‘geo-blocking’, vat-related issues or digital skills. overall i welcome the commission’s digital single market strategy. it will help us, among others, to modernise our market and maintain global competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ creators, consumers and businesses should fully benefit from the potential of the digital single market. a fragmented digital single market limits business opportunities for creators, as well as accessibility to content and services for end users. this own-initiative report ‘towards a digital single market act’ is parliament’s response to the commission’s digital single market strategy of 6 may 2015. the report as adopted in the joint committee has a very broad scope and refers to e-commerce, cross-border parcel delivery, geo-blocking, copyright, vat rules, telecoms framework, audiovisual media, platforms and the role of intermediaries, data protection, e-government, opportunities for increased growth and competitiveness such as big data, standardisation, research, e-skills. each of these areas needs a specific approach and proposals in different legislative instruments. the commission is proposing a step by step approach to these specific areas which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that legislation in the area of a digital single market should allow new opportunities for users and businesses and new innovative cross-border online services at competitive prices. it should remove barriers between member states and facilitate access for european businesses, in particular smes, microenterprises and start-ups to the cross-border market. the eu digital single market has great potential, it could foster competitiveness, have positive effects on growth and jobs, make the society more inclusive, offering new opportunities for unemployed, for young people and women in the job market. so, i voted in favour this report promoting a more dynamic economy and allowing innovation to flourish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative because the union needs a common digital market to remain competitive in the global arena. this initiative will set rules on e–commerce, copyright, and cross-border parcel delivery, among others.
in writing.– without being make or break for the european union, the first six months of 2016 could be make and break for current major european policies. overall, the main challenge is to maintain political coherence. this should be a priority for the dutch presidency. the rift between the north and south of the union can be seen by all. it has been honed by the eurozone’s governance rules, confirmed by the results of the recent national elections in the south and highlighted by the ongoing spat between the italian government and the commission. a rift between the west and the east has now also become palpable. it has been spurred by the immigration crisis but is driven too by a growing disparity in economic structures and different approaches to political methods. these have hitherto been masked by the perceived need to counter russian ‘expansionism’. meanwhile, the possibility of a major eu player leaving the union is further compounding uncertainties. by putting a priority on promoting political cohesion, starting with immigration, the dutch presidency could help to lay the basis for an effective consolidation of eu decision making. at present, institutionally, it is probably in the best position to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report so that latvia can exchange vehicle registration data with other countries after a series of questionnaires and tests. the aim of this, among others, is to allow for a more effective combat against cross-border crime.
in writing. – automated data exchange on vehicle registration data (vrd) is an effective tool in cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. as latvia has fulfilled its obligation on the digitalisation and transmission of dactyloscopic data, for the purposes of automated searching of vrd, latvia should be entitled to receive and supply vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a straightforward procedural vote on a text which has already been adopted by the council with regards to the exchange of data between member states on vehicle registration. because of the provisions within the treaty of amsterdam, the parliament was called to approve the decision, which facilitates better exchange of data between latvia and the other member states with regards to vehicles. this type of exchange of data can help authorities better facilitate their fight against terrorism and cross—border crime, and is already used throughout various other member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe member states’ individual law enforcement authorities require all the tools possible in order to increase the exchange of information and combat crime.
in writing. ‒ the proposed council implementing decision aims to authorise latvia to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha from the date of entry into force of the decision with respect to automated data exchange regarding vehicle registration data. latvia has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on vehicle registration data (vrd) exchange. it carried out a successful pilot run with the netherlands. that is why i voted in favour of the report on automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data (vrd) in latvia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it makes some very important amendments to the commission proposal. for example, it is important that the person is presumed to be innocent from the beginning of the proceedings until the very end of the trial and not only in criminal proceedings. additionally the report stresses that coercion cannot be used against the suspect when trying to obtain information and that violence, whether physical or psychological is unacceptable. the report also limits the number of cases in which the judgement can be announced in the absence of the accused.
in writing. ‒ everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty according to law in a public trial. this means that the accused has been afforded all the necessary judicial guarantees for his defence. we need to strengthen cooperation between member states so as to enhance the protection of individual rights. procedural rules should guarantee the same rights, ensuring that people will not be treated unfairly according to the jurisdiction dealing with their case. the union’s objective is to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by developing common action among the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution as it approves the latest text proposed during the recent trialogue stage. this text, is more advanced than the one negotiated within the committee and emphasises the right for persons to be fully presumed innocent until proven guilty by a competent court. the text introduces and reinforces specific legal safeguards, such as the right to remain silent and the right to be present at a trial. these instances further reinforce the rights and privileges already defined in european and international human rights instruments and work towards ensuring that everyone is considered equal in the eyes of the law and a fair trial is assured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is essential that the union strives to prevent abuses in criminal proceedings. this resolution seeks to ensure that the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings is observed in all member states because it is a key component of the presumption of innocence.
in writing. ‒ effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level remain crucial to establish the appropriate balance in the eu between repressive measures and the individual’s right to a fair trial. the adoption of rules governing the presumption of innocence is an important step in establishing that balance. that is why i voted in favour of the report on presumption of innocence and right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the current council directive on personal protective equipment needs updates and alterations in line with the modern trends and requirements. the report outlines measures that will, among others, allow the consumer to be more informed.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment aims at updating the current directive and aligning it with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products. the proposal has a harmonised approach regarding the obligations on economic operators, improved cooperation between actors and common definitions. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will update the existing personal protective equipment (ppe) legislation in line with the new legislative framework (nlf), which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify regulations on goods across the single market. this deals with requirements for the design and manufacture of ppe which is being made available on the market in order to ensure the protection of users and rules on its free movement in the union. the report deals with the modernisation and simplification of an already well-functioning system regarding ppe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because the safety of our workers is paramount. the proposed measures regarding personal protective equipment (ppe) are aimed at ensuring legal certainty and the effectiveness of the directive.
in writing. ‒ since 1989, the placing of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the eu market has been fully harmonised through council directive 89/686/eec. in the intervening 25 years, this directive has enabled a functioning single market. despite this, the existing ppe legislation is in need of updating in line with the new legislative framework (nlf) which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify regulations of goods across the single market. in particular, in response to concerns that current regulatory requirements are confusing and duplicative, the regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, reinforces cooperation between actors and introduces common definitions. the common approach under the nlf also clarifies the powers of market surveillance authorities enabling the tracking and returning of unsafe goods placed on the single market. that is why i have voted in favour of the report on personal protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it provides good amendments to the existing text which improve consumer safety and allow the consumer to be better informed about the product.
in writing. ‒ despite the successful directive 2009/142/ec, that sets out essential requirements that appliances burning gaseous fuels must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market, there are issues mainly related to simplifying the european regulation environment in the field of gas appliances and fittings, clarifying and aligning existing provisions. hence i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of appliances burning gaseous fuels, which intends to replace directive 2009/142/ec. the regulation will align the provisions to the goods package adopted in 2008 and to the decision ec 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution in order to create a uniform set of rules for all member states to ensure that the market for gas burning appliances can function properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on appliances burning gaseous fuels, which aligns current legislation to the provisions of the goods package adopted in 2008 and in particular to decision ec 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products. it applies to domestic and non-domestic appliances intended for a number of specified applications burning gaseous fuels and to fittings designed to be incorporated into such appliances. it concerns the placing on the market of these products and protection of consumers while using the products concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report so that the existing legislation can be updated in line with the new legislative framework (nlf) on the marketing of products. this will increase transparency and improve safety of the products.
in writing. ‒ the report is on the proposal for a regulation which will repeal and replace directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 relating to cableway installations designed to carry persons. this regulation applies to new cableway installations and covers subsystems and safety components which are new to the union market when they are placed on the market. the new regulation improves market surveillance and safety for consumers and other users, hence i voted in favour of the report
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution in order to harmonise the safety regulations and free movement of cableway installations, creating a uniform set of guidelines across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cableway installation, which aligns current legislation to the provisions of the goods package adopted in 2008 and in particular to decision ec 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products. it applies to new cableway installations and covers subsystems and safety components which are new to the union market when they are placed on the market. cableway installations are mainly lift systems, such as funicular railways, aerial ropeways, cable cars, gondolas, chairlifts, drag lifts and other installations for tourism or sports purposes. the regulation does not apply to cableway installations of historical construction, installations intended for agricultural or forestry purposes, cableway installations for the service of mountain shelters and huts intended only for the transport of goods and specifically authorised persons, and on-site or mobile equipment exclusively designed for leisure and amusement purposes and not as a means for transporting persons. the new regulation improves market surveillance and safety for consumers and other users of cableway installations.
in writing. ‒ the eu may proceed to define and pursue common policies and actions in order to foster the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, with the primary aim of eradicating poverty, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s ‘generalised scheme of preferences’ (gsp) allows developing country exporters to pay less or no duties on their exports to the eu. this gives them vital access to eu markets and contributes to their economic growth. standard/general gsp arrangement offers generous tariff reductions to developing countries, while the gsp+ enhanced preferences mean full removal of tariffs on essentially the same product categories as those covered by the general arrangement. in fact, these are granted to countries which ratify and implement core international conventions relating to human and labour rights, environment and good governance. the objection of the gue group claims that monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions have detected some shortcomings in connection to a number of the gsp+-relevant conventions, and that these shortcomings constitute a failure to implement effectively the relevant conventions. in this specific case i am more in line with the original proposal of the commission and thus voted for the delegated regulation to enter into force.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the resolution on the objection to the delegated act on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences because i do not oppose the delegated act, as no major serious and systematic failures have been found in the kyrgyz application. in this case the gsp+ instrument can be used as an incentive to bring about further positive changes in the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i believe that the emerging technologies in the area of food processing, such as gmos and nanotechnologies, should be prohibited in cereal-based food and most importantly in baby food. their long-term effects are not yet known to us and not enough studies have been carried out in this area so it would be very unsafe and unreasonable to use them in these foods.
in writing. ‒ in annex i of the commission’s proposal the compositional requirements concerning sugars are taken over from previous legislation, and have not been revised since 1996. the commission was given a time frame of 2 years to adopt the delegated acts, however it said that efsa has not yet had time to carry out a study and provide scientific advice. this lack of action means only that such foods can contain added sugar up to a maximum of 30%. in 2015, the world health organisation published a recommendation that salt and sugar should not be added to complementary foods for infants and young children in the first two years of their life. considering the time lapse and new evidence i cannot accept the commission’s position and therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the objection to delegated act on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food because the introduction of such high levels of sugar to foods – especially so early – would have contributed to the rising levels of childhood obesity and may affect the developing taste preferences of children. for infants and young children in particular, added sugar levels should be kept to a minimum. it is an important step in helping to ensure that eu rules on baby food are designed with their health as the utmost priority. the proposal by the commission would have allowed baby foods to contain far higher levels of sugar than those recommended by the world health organization (who).
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary resolution focuses on the recent political developments in colombia vis-a-vis the peace negotiations between the government and revolutionary armed forces of colombia following the internal armed conflict in the country. the resolution condemns the various murders, disappearances enforced, kidnappings, sexual violence and child abuse that has occurred within the country and calls for more efforts to reach peace and stability in the region. while reinstating the eu and colombia’s solid political framework of economic and trade cooperation, the resolution speaks about the responsibility of the colombian state to promote human rights within its territory and the necessity for the state to ensure equitable economic and social development as a prelude for peace. for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the peace process in colombia in order to end armed conflict between the colombian government and farc. the resolution also calls on other combatants to commit to the peace process in order to improve the lives of the colombian people as well as to tackle the flow of illegal drugs which contribute to armed violence across the region.
in writing. ‒ after more than a year and a half of negotiations, the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) have reached a ground-breaking agreement on transitional justice, which is a definitive step forward to a conclusive peace in the long-running armed conflict in latin america. the transitional justice agreement has resolved some of the most serious sticking-points and it makes any derailment of the peace process highly unlikely. this resolution will convey the political support of the ep for the peace process, especially in the implementation phase. the ep must present a coherent and well-coordinated response to this historic occasion. moreover, it will help to create momentum for rising public support in colombia for the talks. that is why i have voted in favour of this resolution
mr president, there is no doubt that the rights of the child deserve particular attention. although the convention on the rights of the child is among the most ratified, its implementation fails in several sectors. policies, like reflective societies, do not always recognise the primacy of the best interests of the child. they are full members of society, whose vulnerability makes them victims of the behaviour of the adults around them, suffering the effects of an environment polluted with poverty, violence, discrimination, and other exploitation. it is therefore necessary for the european union to continue its work to ensure that the convention is not only among the most ratified conventions, but is the most implemented convention. we saw people's reaction to a photograph of a drowned boy's corpse on its journey to a better life. how many children have died on these journeys that we don't know about, and how many children are suffering from poverty that we don't see a picture of? it is our duty, the european union, to expose the cruelty suffered by these children and to ensure that we do everything we can to stop it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as i support the stabilisation and association agreement between eu and the european atomic energy community and kosovo, which seeks to establish an even firmer relationship between the parties. the provisions outlined in the agreement provide good groundwork for the establishment of a free trade area between the eu and kosovo. this further cooperation aims to encourage good practices and promotion of european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement and human rights.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution represents an association agreement strengthening eu relations with kosovo on sectors that are of fundamental importance to the rule of law, commercial as well as social development. it provides a framework of assistance and cooperation which can lead to sustained and stable reforms. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will allow the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo (saa). this is the first formal step towards the eu accession process and european integration path of kosovo. the saa establishes contractual relations which provides for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it will create opportunities for investment, growth, business development and good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu laws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which promotes more political dialogue, as well as a deeper trade relationship, and more generally, closer cooperation between kosovo and the european union.
in writing. ‒ while we often speak of climate change, environmental pollution and its effects on human life, we rarely find concrete instances where action is speedily taken to investigate specific cases of gross negligence or incorrectness with the aim of ensuring that these actions are not repeated. this inquiry is expected to, at least in part, find ways of ensuring that the automotive sector does not fail to fulfil its legal obligations as well as its social corporate responsibility. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament requested that a committee of inquiry be set up to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. the aim of the inquiry would be to investigate alleged contraventions of union law and alleged instances of maladministration in the application of union law which appear to be the act of an institution or body of the european union and public administrative bodies of member states. i supported the setting up this committee, of which i will be a member.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the creation of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector as it is a positive step towards increasing transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as i fully support georgia, moldova and ukraine in implementation of the trade agreements with the european union. these agreements will integrate the three countries closer with the european union and further help them with their economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the association agreement is part of the broader process of seeking closer cooperation with georgia, moldova and ukraine. while democratic institutions in these countries may still be weak, the eu needs to play a role in facilitating the strengthening of these structures, even through trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i welcome the ratification of the various eu association agreements established with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the agreements encompass the deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcfta) and are an invaluable sign that different countries are willing to work towards their european aspirations by ensuring that their national legislations reach the standards expected by the european union within the commitments of the established agreement. however, these agreements must come hand in hand with stronger rule of law, human rights safeguards, the possibility for parliamentary scrutiny to ensure the highest standard of democracy and greater efforts to seek peace in the region, especially in light of various internal and external conflicts with russia, for the benefit of the countries’ own people and their safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution regarding the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova, and ukraine. the resolution acknowledges the strides forward the georgian, moldovan and ukrainian governments have made in ensuring that national legislation approximates eu standards.
in writing. ‒ i condemn the recent attacks in france and regret that we have found ourselves in a situation where the mutual defence clause needs to be invoked. i fully support the people of france and i hope that all member states, in one way or another, will be able to contribute to the fight against terrorism as it is a problem that concerns us all. i therefore voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the use and application of the mutual defence clause has come to the fore with its first use by france following the terrorist attacks of 2015. yet the use of this clause alone will not be sufficient to protect citizens from terrorist attacks, especially when these attacks are being committed by european citizens with strong ties to third countries. i have thus voted in favour of the mutual defence clause report, but only as an element of broader action that addresses security.
in writing. ‒ the eu member states agreed on 17 november 2015 to grant military assistance to france following the terror attacks in paris. for the first time in eu history, defence ministers unanimously decided to activate the ‘mutual defence clause’ of the eu treaty. bilateral talks have begun between france and other member states to clarify french needs and other countries’ capabilities. the treaty of lisbon provides the possibilities for enhanced cooperation in common security and defence policy, including the consignment of specific tasks and missions to clusters of states. i supported this resolution as it serves as a first, general parliamentary position, setting as its objective to stimulate the council and the member states to draft and adopt practical arrangements and guidelines for ensuring an effective response in the event that a member state invokes the mutual defence clause. i abstained on the provisions that can shed doubt on the provisions of the neutrality clause established in the constitution of malta.
in writing. ‒ i supported this cross-party resolution regarding the union’s mutual defence clause because i believe that member states should support each other in this time of heightened uncertainty and insecurity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which lists the european parliament’s priorities for the united nations human rights council sessions in 2016, because the report highlights a number of aspects which are essential to global development and stability in the world. through this resolution, parliament is calling for better defined legal criteria which will help address a number of issues within the field of human rights, such as the establishment of a legal definition of climate refugees and the recognition of climate change as a force behind the movement of people and migratory pressure, amongst others. the report also advocates for better lgbtiq rights throughout the world and gives particular importance to expressing one’s gender identity in a way which they find desirable. as i have done in the past, i have voted against any references to sexual and reproductive health rights (srhr) in the report, as my stance against srhr has always been clearly against abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because despite the many positive elements it contains, the final version contained unacceptable references to sexual and reproductive health rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a clear and comprehensive analysis of the activities of the committee on petitions. i particularly welcome the fact that it emphasises the importance of the european citizens’ initiative and its role played in the promotion and implementation of participatory democracy in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions provides european citizens with an easy and informal process that enables them to seek justice. it is important that this process is strengthened, thereby making it more accessible as well as more efficient and effective. the report makes a number of important proposals to strengthen this process with which i am in agreement. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the petitions committee annual report, in which the committee aims to give a precise and full view of the work carried out in 2014. the report presents statistics and analysis on the number of petitions received, closed and dealt with in 2014, the countries concerned and the matters raised. the report also suggests possible improvements in procedures and in relations with other institutions and national and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ as vice-chair of this committee, i am proud of the work we have carried out in 2014. i voted in favour of this report, which underlines that the right to petition the european parliament is a vital tool for our citizens to voice their concerns and is one of the most direct channels between parliament and the citizens.
in writing.– so long as it introduces better transparency in tax matters in the european union, the commission decision on the corporate tax package is welcome. however, where it serves as part of a wider programme to introduce harmonisation of taxation across member states, the package must be critically scrutinised. member states, especially in the eurozone, are implementing uniform rules in financial and economic decision-making. this is working to the advantage of members having better economic endowments. one cannot deny to those who have less endowments, especially smaller and peripheral countries, the remaining flexibility in tax policies. current accounting systems to measure profits and expenses date from when manufacturing was the main sector of economies. as services and digital activities, accompanied with a globalised mode of production and marketing, become increasingly predominant, the task of determining profits and expenses is now much more complex. in the circumstances the easiest way by which to claim to be curbing tax evasion by mncs is by imposing tax harmonisation, using existing accounting methods. this is unfair. indeed, the characteristic of any corporate tax package should be flexibility, equally applicable to all, not only to the bigger economies, as has happened with sgp rules.
in writing. ‒ the schengen borders code allows member states to give effect to the freedom of movement principle which is of fundamental value to european citizens. the report presents a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i have voted in favour as codification provides better access to legislation for the citizen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is a straightforward codification procedure of existing texts. there are no substantial changes to the text in question and therefore i voted in favour of the adoption of this position at first reading.
in writing. ‒ this report involves the codification of texts regarding the movement of persons across european borders, as provided by the schengen borders code. i voted in favour of this report as codification of the rules regulating movement of persons will help make for a safer europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) as the proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is harmful to the human environment, yet pollution does not contain itself to one state and so cannot be addressed through single individual state action but only through joint international action. i have voted in favour of this report which supports the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. action that deals with pollution and environmental issues needs to be kept under continuous review.
in writing. ‒ i supported this amendment to the aarhus protocol on heavy metals, as the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that shall benefit those parties that will accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the amendment is fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the amendment because i believe it is important to take a proactive role concerning the health of our environment. specifically, this amendment aims to limit dust emissions from fixed sources, and to lower transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i gave my full support to the report on amending the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals. the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019.
in writing. ‒ the protocol in question aims at reducing emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel industry, non-ferrous metal industry), combustion processes (power generation, road transport), and waste incineration. i have voted in favour of the eu accepting amendments to the protocol so as to ensure continued relevance of the aims of the protocol itself.
in writing. ‒ i supported this amendment to the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants, as the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment because it is an important step to further curb and lower air pollution. the new amendments place new restrictions upon dioxin and furan emissions, as well as add pcbs to the list of substances affected by overall emissions limits and reporting obligations.
in writing. ‒ i gave my full support to the report on amending the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and corruption, is important to ensure citizens’ safety. i agree with the provisions concerning the operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer by ukraine to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question concerns the approval of an agreement of cooperation between ukraine and eurojust in order to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime in various aspects. changes were made with regards to the exchange of information which could include personal data, as ukraine is a party to the council of europe convention of 28 january 1981 on the protection of individuals with regards to the automatic processing of personal data and additional protocols. the agreement seeks to strengthen the european union’s fight against organised and cross-border crime, specifically the fight against terrorism. for this reason i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because judicial cooperation between ukraine and eurojust helps the fight against organised crime and terrorism. an important facet of this resolution is enhancing the operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, including the exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i gave my approval to a draft cooperation agreement to be entered into between eurojust and ukraine, in particular to the draft council decision approving the draft agreement. it is important that we continue to support the work of eurojust, as it will play a key role if the eu wants to enhance its judicial cooperation to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime in particular organised crime and corruption is important to ensure citizens’ safety. i agree with the provisions concerning the operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer by montenegro to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of council draft 11592/2015 as i support the conclusion of this cooperation agreement between the european union and montenegro as it aims to strengthen the eu’s fight against organised and cross border crime, particularly within the field of organised crime and terrorism. the agreement aims to enhance judicial cooperation between the eu and montenegro and contains provisions concerning the operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison prosecutor by montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. because it is essential that the eu equips itself with the necessary tools for the fight against terrorism and organised crime, i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to further the judicial cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. this resolution, like the one between eurojust and ukraine, seeks to advance operational cooperation and the exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i gave my approval to the cooperation agreement to be entered into between eurojust and montenegro, in particular to the draft council decision approving the draft agreement. it is important that we continue to support the work of eurojust, as it will play a key role if the eu wants to enhance its judicial cooperation to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases, i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases, i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament are acting within the scope of their official duties whilst expressing opinions publicly on the foreign policy of the eu or of non-member states. parliamentary immunity is an absolute immunity which implies that opinions cannot be challenged, whether they are expressed during official meetings of parliament or elsewhere, for example in the media. i agree that the conditions for the waiver of mr philippot’s immunity are not met, thus i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report not to waive the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot because i believe that an mep can publicly express an opinion on the foreign policy of the european union or of non-member states as this is within the scope of their official duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot.
in writing. ‒ workers who are in undeclared work often face hazardous working conditions, much lower wages, severe infringements of labour rights, and find greatly reduced protection under labour and social protection law. as legislators it is of concern that people are forced to choose undeclared work as this deprives them of adequate social benefits, pension rights and access to healthcare, as well as skills development and life-long learning opportunities. from a cross-border element point of view this platform should contribute to the strengthening of the cooperation between member states, including adopting innovative approaches of cross-border cooperation and enforcement as well as by evaluating experiences of such cooperation to draw conclusions for future policy action. finally, by voting in favour i am expressing my concern about the lack of targeted policies for workers in the informal sector who are young, elderly or female, and, in particular women with disabilities and female immigrants. we need to integrate these realities into the formal range of rules and regulations of the social market economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the first reading of this agreement as i believe that the eu must make greater efforts in combatting undeclared work and precarious employment throughout the eu. undeclared work detriments the wellbeing of workers and subjects them to a black market with no financial, or social safeguards. the proposal seeks to establish a platform that helps, not only by preventing undeclared work but also by transforming undeclared work into declared work. furthermore, i supported the proposal as it gives member states the necessary tools to combat undeclared work within their member states and through cross border collaboration and helps the eu give one unified response to the phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe that all member states should work together to crack down on undeclared work, which exposes workers to exploitation and undermines the financing of social services.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the establishment of a european platform to enhance cooperation at eu level for both prevention and deterrence of undeclared work as well as encouraging its transformation into declared work. this report is an important first step towards dealing with the multiple challenges of undeclared work in europe. the european platform will operate on the basis of experience and best practice exchange, bringing together a wide range of stakeholders, including representatives of member states and cross-industry social partners.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity has an overwhelming intrinsic value that ensures a safe and healthy environment for future generations, benefiting also human health. when we read scientific research which indicates the woes caused to our health because we have not cared enough for biodiversity and our environment, this in itself is sufficient reason to fully support this report. for those who are somewhat reluctant to accept the benefits of having strong environmental laws, it is good to point out that the economic opportunity cost of missing the biodiversity headline target is estimated to be eur 50 billion a year! everyone is a stakeholder in environmental and biodiversity protection, be it private individuals, private enterprise or governments. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ biological diversity is key to our well-being and economy, but indicators show that it is under threat, mainly as a result of human activity. parliament’s report, which i supported, expresses concern about the continuing loss of biodiversity and underlines that the full implementation of the nature directives and adequate financing are vital prerequisites for the success of the strategy. it highlights the need for policy coherence, in particular between biodiversity protection and agriculture and forestry, and urges the commission and member states to redirect financial resources under the common agricultural policy from environmentally harmful activities to sustainable agricultural practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the eu biodiversity strategy. we need to do more to protect our natural environment. this will deliver a strong political signal on the need to act urgently to protect europe’s ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of the strategic own-initiative report on ‘the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy’ is to respond to the commission proposal for the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy. i gave my full support to the ep report which includes the importance of providing urgent political priority to the achievement of the 2020 targets, more information to the general public to increase awareness, adopting a multi-stakeholder approach to ensure the active participation of all stakeholders including regional and local actors. the report supports strong protection for the restoration of our natural environment and it sends out a strong political signal on the need to act urgently to protect europe’s nature for the benefit of our citizens.
unfortunately we are in a situation where instead of tackling the immigration problem at its core, the european union is ending up bypassing the problem, with policies that only address the consequences. this is an issue that goes beyond our borders, and that requires joint action with many international countries. the challenges ahead are also undermining european borders and laws, which were never designed for the crisis we are facing today. case in point, the schengen agreement and also the dublin regulations. the proposal to relocate immigrants is no longer working, and the burden is still being borne mainly by those at the borders. it is useless to point fingers at one country. the reality is that border countries cannot be left to fend for themselves without aid. european policies are needed to show that the problem is being managed by all countries. otherwise we will continue to wander around the problems without ever addressing the problem properly, and let the problem grow much bigger than it is.
madam president, having sat here for the past four and a half hours, i still think it right that we are having this debate. but, as i think we can all agree, our citizens are demanding concrete action from member states. they have heard enough talk. we all have. if states cannot come together on the pressing issues of our time, then it is no wonder that people lose faith in the political process. it is useless agreeing on legislation when there is no expression of political will. when it comes to schengen, we must understand that we do not have internal borders because we promised that our external borders would be more secure. one is dependent on the other. we trusted member states to fulfill their obligations and in some cases we have been let down. so it is clear that we need more, and stronger, measures, but that alone will not be enough. we need a holistic global approach that looks at every single aspect. on returns, yes, people must be returned strictly in accordance with non-refoulement, and yes, we must give those who seek protection the chance to ask for it, but when you are found not to be eligible for protection, you must be sent back safely and swiftly. those who are genuinely in need of protection should be able to find it in our europe and other safe countries. of course there are challenges, but the way forward is to have a two-way approach. people fleeing war must be given the rights they are entitled to, but it is also fair to expect respect for the values upon which the eu is built. finally, the recent attacks in european cities and the rise in populist xenophobia in europe are disturbing. the events in cologne and the recent racist attacks expose underlying issues that must be addressed. we need to come down harder on hate, and as politicians we have a particular responsibility here that we should not ignore.
in writing.– schengen is now under fire and has become the subject of many debates. 26 european countries have reintroduced border controls. people take schengen and the right to freely move within the union for granted, without giving a second thought that 30 years ago a whole list of cross-border activities were not possible for many european citizens and businesses. the opening of eu borders proved to be highly beneficial for cross-border commuters, tourism, trade, investments, labour and financial markets and has an enormous effect on the european economy. the cost of restoring the eu’s borders would simply be enormous and i do not think that anyone at this stage could even estimate the consequences that this would have on the european integration project. europe’s problem is not schengen or lack of internal borders, it is the lack of mutual trust and solidarity among the member states. the eu should focus on how to stem the flood of migrants at its origin, and not on building walls and fences. only then will the security and wellbeing of its citizens be safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement, like most agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause, which triggers the suspension of the agreement in the case of an unexpected and significant increase of imports and causing damage to the eu domestic industry. i voted in favour of this report as it provides reasonable amendments to the commission proposal, namely the safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism so that they can be easily implemented should such a need arise. the two mechanisms themselves are a good way of protecting the interests of our domestic industry.
in writing. ‒ in november 2013 parliament voted in favour of an eu-moldova association agreement. the current report seeks the suspension of a previously-contracted agreement with moldova so as to align both agreements. it is important that the eu’s relationship with moldova is founded on clear rules and structures. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that establishes safeguard measures for european trade with the republic of moldova. specifically, this report spells out safeguard measures in the case that a product originating in the republic of moldova is, as a result of the reduction or the elimination of the customs duties on that product, imported into the union in such increased quantities that it could threaten to cause serious harm to the union’s industry. furthermore, anti-circumvention clauses are important to avoid imports into the union of non-moldovan products via moldova using the advantages of the agreement to circumvent ‘rules of origin’ requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which is important to protect the union’s market and its producers. in case of an increase in imports, the amendments outline the instruments necessary to place temporary safeguards to protect the economy of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-moldova association agreement: temporary suspension of tariff preferences, as this report concerns the incorporation into eu law of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-moldova association agreement. this means that no fundamentally new conditions can be introduced during the legislative procedure which have not already been agreed during the negotiations on the association agreement with moldova.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report so a regulation can be adopted, which will allow for an effective application of the anti-circumvention mechanism in the future in order to protect the eu producers if necessary.
in writing. ‒ like in the case of moldova, i welcome the inclusion in the agreement of the anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold. to this effect, a law needs to be put in place laying down the necessary instrument to be able to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that calls for an ‘anti-circumvention’ clause regarding trade between the european union and georgia. this mechanism provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate in the event that imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. ultimately such a safeguard measure would be dually beneficial: it would result in greater transparency and more security for domestic, european firms and it would serve as a mechanism to protect georgian producers from this potential misuse and unprecedented competition from non-georgian producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed regulation because it is essential to protect eu producers and economy. this amendment aims at clarifying the wording of the agreement and expanding upon the application of the anti-circumvention process.
in writing. ‒ i gave my approval to the eu-georgia association agreement: temporary suspension of tariff preferences, which concerns the incorporation in the eu law of the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-georgia association agreement. the agreement has been provisionally applied since 1 september 2014. no fundamentally new conditions can be introduced during the legislative procedure which have not already been agreed during the negotiations with georgia. however, the legislation can lay out the rules to be followed during the procedure and how decisions under the mechanism are to be taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as i believe that the marrakesh treaty should be ratified by all member states as soon as possible to ease the access to suitable versions of books, among others, for those who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. at the moment, production of such versions of published works is restricted due to domestic copyright laws.
in writing. ‒ only 5 per cent of all published books in the developed countries and less than 1 per cent in the developing countries are ever produced in accessible formats. this shows how developments in technologies have not been incorporated in making culture more accessible to persons with disabilities. today different technologies make it possible for persons with disabilities to have greater and more effective access to cultural goods and services such as books. member states have been somewhat hesitant to ratify this treaty to the detriment of persons with disability and of the cultural sector itself. the motion for resolution calls on the commission to facilitate the process of ratification of the treaty by the eu. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that calls on the council to accelerate the ratification process of the marrakech treaty. essentially the treaty concentrates on copyright exceptions to allow for greater distributions of books in formats accessible to visually impaired citizens in an effort to prevent discrimination of visually impaired and print disabled persons. they should have access to the same books as other persons. this short resolution hopes to put pressure on the remaining seven members which as yet have not ratified the treaty. this is important because there are over 26 million visually impaired individuals across europe with only 5% of all published books produced in accessible formats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because people with disabilities should have access to equal access to education and opportunity and i will continue to work to this end.
in writing. ‒ worldwide 285 million people are visually impaired and yet only 5% of published books in europe are available in an accessible format for them. the marrakesh treaty will help improve access to books, education and cultural content in formats such as braille, large print, e-books and audio books with special navigation tools. this will create equal opportunities for millions of visually impaired people around the world. it will improve their lives by helping them become independent and self-reliant through education and empowerment. the marrakesh treaty is the instrument visually impaired people have been waiting for to facilitate delivery of accessible format books that people with disabilities need for education, employment and full social inclusion. therefore, i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution calling for widespread ratification and implementation of the marrakesh treaty which will have a huge impact and improve the lives of people with print disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution for the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision as amongst other matters it does not aim to sufficiently protect human health. genetically modified foods still raise concerns and it is questionable whether they are safe for human consumption.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean. the production of goods containing genetically modified ingredients is not limited to consumption or use in one state as this facilitates the development of gmo trade across borders. this will make it impossible for those member states who ban the sales and use of genetically modified products to effectively take such health—related decisions.
in writing. ‒ last october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on genetically modified food and feed, and asked the commission to come up with a new proposal. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework, which the commission acknowledges is not working well. the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. i voted in favour of the objection, because i believe that the commission should review the draft implementing act, taking account of the position expressed.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the genetically modified mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 soybean through various chemical processes was qualified by the world health organization as probably carcinogenic. this means that we cannot take the risk of authorising such a product in times when we are already exposed to many carcinogens over which we have no influence.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean. the production of goods containing genetically modified ingredients is not limited to consumption or use in one state as this facilitates the development of gmo trade across borders. this will make it impossible for those member states who ban the sales and use of genetically modified products to effectively take such health—related decisions.
in writing. ‒ last october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on genetically modified food and feed and asked the commission to come up with a new proposal. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework, which the commission acknowledges is not working well. the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. i voted in favour of the objection, because i believe that the commission should review the draft implementing act, taking account of the position expressed.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because authorisation of this specific genetically modified soybean would be against the interests of consumers. studies of genetically modified foods have shown that they bring no benefits to human health, but on the other hand may have negative consequences.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean. the production of goods containing genetically modified ingredients is not limited to consumption or use in one state as this facilitates the development of gmo trade across borders. this will make it impossible for those member states who ban the sales and use of genetically modified products to effectively take such health—related decisions.
in writing. ‒ last october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on genetically modified food and feed and asked the commission to come up with a new proposal. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework, which the commission acknowledges is not working well. the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. i voted in favour of the objection, because i believe that the commission should review the draft implementing act, taking account of the position expressed.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because the alternative was vetoing the agreement, which would have led to creating a legal vacuum for at least two years combined with uncertainty for car owners and the industry and absolutely no progress for the environment. on the contrary, now the eu can rapidly implement the on-road tests, which together with the planned commission proposals for a major overhaul of the eu type approval framework will make it very difficult for the car industry to circumvent the emissions requirements. road emissions test are more effective than laboratory tests which had been the norm until now. my vote helped to significantly cut pollution emissions by diesel cars in the short term.
in writing. ‒ vehicle emissions are one of the major causes of air pollution for which we need concrete measures to not only counteract its effects but also to prevent it. the proposal to introduce a real driving emissions test for all vehicles so as to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems has already been the subject of a resolution which was voted in by the european parliament on 27 october 2015. today’s resolution asks the commission to withdraw a draft regulation and submit a new one introducing the driving emissions test in the manner proposed. while i fully support the need to ensure effective implementation of measures that prevent pollution even from vehicle emissions, i do not believe it will bring better protection to seek the withdrawal of a draft regulation.
in writing. ‒ the technical committee on motor vehicles – chaired by the european commission and consisting of national experts – agreed on the second package of rde test procedure on 28 october 2015. in spite of the recent emission measurement scandal and the widespread exceedances of nox limits throughout europe, the committee agreed to allow euro 6 diesel cars to emit over double the euro 6 limit from 2017 to 2020, and 50% after 2020, de facto increasing the standard to 120 mg/km forever. for these reasons we cannot accept the political decision made in the technical committee. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this objection and request a new proposal from the commission by 1 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection. vetoing the agreement would have led to creating a legal vacuum for the next two years combined with uncertainty for car owners and the industry and absolutely no progress for the environment. now the eu can rapidly implement the on-road tests, which together with the planned commission proposals for a major overhaul of the eu type approval framework will make it very difficult for the car industry to circumvent the emissions requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject and veto the commission’s plan to temporarily raise nox emission limits for diesel cars. for the sake of our own health and following the recent emissions scandal and the fact that numerous devastating lung diseases and more than 600 000 premature deaths are linked annually in europe to air pollution, i believe that we have the obligation to protect consumers and provide a better air quality for our citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it contains many excellent suggestions for the commission regarding the trade in services agreement (tisa) negotiations. the agreement in itself provides many new opportunities in terms of access to foreign markets and reduction of obstacles to trade on the international arena which is bound to result in growth and creation of jobs. this agreement is to cover a large proportion of world trade services and therefore contributes to the setting of new world standards.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s role in trade policy is very important as it streamlines issues related to trade policies from a holistic angle. however member states retain a final say on trade agreements. the current report assesses the work so far carried out on the trade in services agreements and makes recommendations to the european commission on how to steer these negotiations towards common goals and targets. amongst these proposals is that to create a global level playing field and ensuring more reciprocity in market access. it is very important to ensure that smes and consumers are provided with the best opportunities that safeguard their opportunities to access the market by seeking measures to do away with obstacles. i have voted in favour of this report as it contains proposals which take into account both the interests of european companies and of consumers.
in writing. ‒ with this report the european parliament is laying down its position on the essential elements that it feels should be included in the upcoming trade in services agreement. i voted in favour of this report as it called for the exemption of public services from the agreement, workers’ rights safeguards, high data protection standards and the right to regulate to be included as key principles of the agreement. by ensuring that these key issues are highlighted before the negotiations start, parliament is giving a clear message about the level of standards it expects from such an agreement – and for this reason i supported the rapporteur’s position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it is important for the european parliament to continually play an active role in trade negotiations. the trade in services agreement (tisa) ensures that all signatories have a level playing field and more reciprocity in market access. the rapporteur also highlights the importance of data protection and privacy in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the trade in services agreement tisa. it is very important to stress that this report does not determine the final position of the european parliament or the s&d group on tisa. instead the report adopts various recommendations – red lines and blue lines – for the ongoing negotiations over the trade in services agreement (tisa). the aim is to ensure that main priorities are taken into account during the negotiations and in the finalised deal by the commission. the report addresses all key concerns such as transparency of the negotiations, preserving the right to privacy amidst data flows across borders, a full carve-out for public services and audiovisual services while reserving policy space for cultural issues and preventing social dumping and preserving labour rights. the report also calls for more information for eu consumers travelling and using services abroad, e.g. on roaming fees, commission payments on credit cards and safeguards against spam and geoblocking. if the commission must respect these recommendations, then tisa should afford more rights to our citizens at home and remove some obstacles to our companies abroad.
i am very disappointed that the commission has decided to ignore the demands of the european parliament and choose to bring down the now outdated strategy for women's equality to the level of a staff working document. this is a far cry from the loyal commitment to bring about change for women and girls in europe. this document will not be presented to the other institutions of the european union, will be less transparent, will not be subject to democratic approval, and will not have the political profile it deserves. in my role as a member of this house i will continue to urge the european commission to present a new strategy, providing a long-term vision, consisting of an overall policy framework with a monitoring and accountability mechanism. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe. it calls for the immediate adoption of this strategy to address equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working hours, decision-making, education, media and external relations, among others.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because while the concept is noble, we should perhaps first focus on relevant legislation that already exists but has not yet been implemented by the member states.
in writing. ‒ targets set for gender equality in leadership positions, at work and in other social and economic sectors are not being met. yet despite the fact that all the political groups work towards attaining gender equality, they fail to obtain consensus on the drafting of a motion for a resolution. politics with a small ‘p’ should be set aside and common aims and language ought to be sought. only a joint force reflecting the support of all the political groups can truly lead to significant development in gender equality. i have voted against the proposal voted on in today’s plenary because i believe a different proposal contained a more effective approach to gender equality. however, i remain in favour of gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as i believe that the commission must present its post-2015 strategy on gender equality in the form of a strong legislative proposal with concrete benchmarks and a precise budget dedicated to progress in this field. in order to ensure real gender equality within the union, the commission must present a full strategy in line with article 2 of the tfeu, which goes above and beyond the already created staff working document. furthermore, i believe in enhancing and supporting the 7 december declaration by the current eu presidency trio – the netherlands, slovakia and malta – on gender equality which calls for a new strategy for 2015-2020 in order to ensure the full utilisation of the available workforce, and empowerment of women and young girls throughout europe.
although the october presidential election in haiti was considered by european union observers to be fair, unrest eventually arose, and the second round was postponed twice to 24 january. as one of the european parliament's team of observers for the monitoring of the second round, i would just like to say 'what a disaster and what a country! ' the less than forty-eight hours before the vote, the electoral authorities postponed the election for a third time, but this time for an indefinite period amid opposition with violent protests, burning of buildings, vehicles and the killing of people. for one of the world's poorest countries, democratic change is essential for stable politics and economic recovery. if not, the misery of these people will continue to grow, a misery that unfortunately has been caused by dictatorial policies, corruption, lack of education, and lack of health, lack of direction and also the effects of the devastating earthquakes of a few years ago. and it is therefore important that this country regain the confidence of the people. but for this to happen it is important that the violence stops immediately, and the parties involved engage in a process designed to successfully bring about a transparent and democratic election. the european union can help by authorising a special mission to assist in political actions to negotiate a new date for elections, monitor the current situation to prevent further violence and assist in resolving the impending crisis.
mr president, the situation in libya is becoming desperate. daesh extremists are extending their reach. the time to stop them is as soon as possible. however, the european union decided to await the formation of a libyan government of national unity under the aegis of the united nations. it should honour this decision so that it can reclaim the respect and trust of the libyan people. negotiations towards a national unity government have been spiked with mistrust, for libyan society has been deeply fractured by the events of the past few years. it cannot surprise us that negotiations have encountered long delays. nor should one overlook mistakes in mediation efforts that were made. irritated by delays, they went for speed. the main players in the libyan drama share a country but have totally contrasting perspectives and interests. whether in good or bad faith, they must decide the future of the people. imposing sanctions against those who fail to deliver unity now is a bad decision, especially if taken independently of the united nations system. that will serve to kindle the suspicion of the libyan people in european intentions. true, quick action is required against daesh, but allowing more time to truly find a lasting solution by establishing a libyan national unity administration is one risk to take.
president-in-office of the council on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– thank you very much, mr president. thank you for this interesting debate and for the important remarks made by members. i think we all agree – and i am speaking here on behalf of the high representative – that libya is absolutely crucial for our common foreign and security policy. libya is close by. it is close by tunisia and egypt and it is close by mali and niger; and i also agree with those of you who said that there are risks, and increasing risks, of a daesh presence in libya. we also agree that the political process, although advancing, is not proceeding fast enough, that there are plenty of hurdles ahead, and that the new authorities are fragile and need all our support. i think we also agree, if i listen carefully to members, that the european union, so close to libya, is confronted with serious threats; that terrorist groups are expanding and must be contained; that daesh is posing a growing threat, for instance to libya’s oil industry; that the threat reinforces even more the urgency of finding a political solution through implementation of the lpa, enabling libyan forces themselves to unite against daesh; that the libyan economy and its social fabric are in a perilous state; that there is a serious humanitarian crisis – i shall return to that in a second – that needs to be tackled; and that smugglers must be confronted and illegal migration brought under control. it is important to say that we all know that the real solution to all these daunting problems would be a libyan government endorsed by all libyans and working for all libyans and benefiting from all the support the international community can give. if you look at the different entities, the many militias and the presence of daesh in so many parts of libya, is it possible still to come to a compromise? it will not be easy. we have no doubt that the vast majority of libyans are not radicals; they do not support daesh in any shape or form. the new authorities represent much more a relatively moderate majority and we have the obligation to encourage and support them for that precise reason. the european union will continue to do all it can to contribute to this effort and to make sure libya emerges a safer and stronger country after five years of upheaval and disappointment. i think it is important also to say that i understand the reasoning that many of you want to talk about plan b. but we firmly believe – and i think the international community as a whole firmly believes – that a unity government at the stage where we are right now, accepted by all libyans as a result of wide-ranging negotiations, is now the only chance to restore peace and security in the country and prevent a total economic collapse. that is not a matter of naivety; that is where we are right now in negotiations, and going along any other track, in my view and in the view of the high representative, would not be wise. it is important to say also that, obviously, we are ready to support not only the negotiation process – we do already, the high representative is active on this; we work very closely with martin kobler, whom i would like (and i think many of you said that) to applaud for his work. he came into a very complex situation in december and has immediately taken up the initiative to work not only with the parties in the country but also with the municipalities, which i think is extremely important. those of you who are closer to the situation in libya know how important it is to work on different fronts, if you wish, and he has been working on that. he knows the region; he knows how to negotiate, but we have to support him. a special representative cannot do this by himself or herself; it needs the support of the international community, the european union, but obviously also the members of the security council in new york. i think many of you mentioned also the issue of the humanitarian crisis. i think it is important because, in a fragmented security situation, what happens always is that the citizens of the country are victimised. they pay the price, and there is no doubt that the complete disregard for international humanitarian law and limited access make the delivery of humanitarian aid a real challenge. in spite of this, the commission remains the main humanitarian donor for the libyan crisis. besides echo, several projects funded from other instruments have been revised in order to respond to the most urgent needs of displaced peoples and migrants, both in terms of humanitarian assistance and protection. it does not mean that we can reach everybody, but the european union is, i think, the most active actor in responding to this very important humanitarian imperative. that also refers to the issue of human rights abuses. when we work towards a political solution, when we think through the risks of libya, obviously we realise that human rights abuses are tremendous. you see how many of the militia groups are present in libya and how they actually, in many instances, control the populations and also abuse their rights. it is important that we keep not only drawing attention to this but also doing the maximum we can do. i have no doubt that it can only be done if we have further progress on the whole discussion of this new government: on the discussions around the formation of that government – how many members – all these issues that play right now and that are in the middle of the fire of the discussion, so to speak, so i do not want to go into them in detail. but an eu human rights mission has taken place in order to at least know exactly what is going on. we work also in the media sector. that also includes training people to ensure that these kinds of things are actually reported, and there are several projects dedicated to transitional processes. to save time, i will not go into all the details. i would like to close with these remarks, realising that i feel very much that there is broad support also in the european parliament for continuing without any naivety. i realise that: without any naivety. but i also realise that in the end, a political solution, as elsewhere, is actually the most effective one. it is not a soft approach. it is an approach in order to bring some order. it will not be automatically a denmark or another democracy in europe in a few years, but it is the only way to bring about stability and to fight, with the support of the european union, also the threats of daesh and other extremists.
in writing.– to many, the situation in libya may seem nothing more than another conflict on tv. however the reality is that one of the world’s worst internal armed conflicts is happening less than 300 km away from europe’s borders. we are not talking about the other side of the world, we are talking about our neighbours – and this is why it is imperative to promote peace efforts within the region. however, this parliament needs to be clearer – in its words and its actions. we can no longer support one faction, or another – we can only support peace. we must encourage and promote dialogue between all parties that want unity, democracy and above all, amity. we need to ensure that libya empowers itself, but through unity not division – we must look towards combating terrorism in the region not simply through military actions, but through political ones. daesh aims to divide and conquer – and it is only through accord that we can triumph over terrorism. this is why i commend the efforts of the united nations and member states like my own, malta, for taking on an active participatory role in bringing both sides together for a sustainable way forward.
we have heard a lot of talk about the incidents in cologne, and in other european cities. at the same time we are experiencing another phenomenon of increasing xenophobic sentiments. the european union must provide the answer, and our response must be based on the values we embrace, the values we believe in. hatred is unacceptable at any time and under any circumstances. this applies to women, different minorities, religions or any other sector. everyone should feel at ease in our host cities. this must be understood by everyone and we need to be tough on those who think differently. i want to make it clear that there is no cultural excuse for what we saw in cologne, just as there is no cultural excuse for racism and violence. it doesn't matter who you are, what you look like, what you believe, or what you practice, who you love, how you dress. our message from this parliament should be that you can live in total freedom, and without fear. this is a message that lies at the heart of our european values, at the heart of what it really means to live in europe. and while everyone's rights must be guaranteed it is just and legitimate that the freedoms and basic values are respected by everyone on this continent, no matter who they are.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your contributions. i wanted to assure you from the outset of my constant concern about the specific problems facing the islands, the outermost regions. as i was saying, last year i attended the annual meeting in guadalupe. this year, the annual meeting of the outermost regions will take place in madeira. last month - two weeks ago, actually - in strasbourg, i met with a number of you who are members of the european parliament representing the outermost regions and i wanted to come along with me and the commissioner for climate change, mr karmenu vella, because i know that a number of you have specific problems with fisheries policies, maritime policies and so on. as i said at the outset, these outermost regions and, in general, the islands belong to member states, and in this respect i was pleased that, just in december, the european court of justice issued a communication and obliged the member states to take account of the outermost regions in their operational programmes and of the specific features of these outermost regions. we are in constant dialogue with the member states to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, islands and those with a special situation. as i said at the beginning, the financial and political framework for the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020 is an important step towards better responding to the specific needs of island regions. i want to assure you that i have also recommended to the governors of these islands, to the governors of the outermost regions, that they have a more active, more proactive role, because it is not enough for us, the european commission, to go to an island once a year. as you said, we have no way of knowing reality unless there is a mutual, constant dialogue in bringing to our attention the problems they face. in this respect, you can count on me, on the commission. as regards greece, as you know very well, last year i stood before you, asking for extraordinary measures for an extraordinary situation. we have managed to change the regulations and we have 100% co-financing so, in fact, it can no longer be called co-financing. basically, from this point of view, i think, from our point of view, we have done everything we could for greece. i share what has been said here. more than 880,000 people came to greece in 2015 alone. it is a huge burden and i assure you that the commission is working very closely with the greek authorities to support greece in this huge challenge. but i would like to say that it all depends on administrative capacity. you mentioned the island of lesbos. i met with the governor there, explained to her how much european funds could be used. unfortunately, greece is one of the countries that doesn't want to use european funds for this migration problem, although there are possibilities, with a small part of the amount, to make mobile hospitals, kindergartens and so on. italy is the only country to have requested the change of operational programmes and the european commission has already transferred eur 220 million to italy for this purpose. in any case, i am aware of the problems facing greece and i want to assure you that, in general, with regard to the islands, we are doing everything we can to meet the specific needs. unfortunately, many member states do not want these regions to be treated separately. greece, for example, in the accession treaty wants to be considered as one country and in the operational programmes and the partnership agreement it makes no particular reference to the special conditions of the islands, just as france, for example, specifies in the partnership agreement that there are outermost regions such as réunion, french guiana, guadeloupe, etc., which require separate policies. so, as i said, this is a shared responsibility and, particularly as regards the implementation of european funds, i believe that this is 100% the responsibility of the member states. as mentioned earlier, we have a number of specific instruments and derogations that are in place. the challenge for all of us in the period ahead is to improve regional policy so that it responds as well as possible to the needs of all regions and the challenges ahead. i want to assure you of my availability. we have asked for and may be able to organise a meeting on this subject in brussels this year. we must ensure, as you said, that island regions not only meet the challenges they are facing today, but also that, on the basis of their european specificities, they contribute better to the achievement of the objectives of the european union. i want to assure you that we are working closely with the outermost regions, with the islands. as i was saying, i also visited some islands in italy, sicily. we want european funds to be used in the best possible way to have a positive impact on these economies, in particular in terms of fighting unemployment and, of course, the use of energy resources. there is a big problem that you have also raised here with regard to transport links. i understand very well. somebody here said they're changing four planes. we work together here. it is the sovereignty of the member states, as i said. for example, france contributes money from its budget to help citizens in these outermost regions have a lower cost. other countries, like spain, for example, are asking the european commission to subsidise the cost of tickets for these citizens, which is not in our power in terms of capacity. so i think we need to talk more about the specific problems of the islands, i'm absolutely convinced that it's a major problem, i'm absolutely convinced that we need derogations. that is why, as i said earlier, i have a permanent discussion with both commissioner vestager, as regards state aid, and with mr vella, because i am aware that, as we have a very strict policy on fisheries policy, we need derogations for these islands, which are facing major problems. so in this respect, i think that the 2014-2020 programming period, which you adopted as co-legislator, is an important step forward, but on the other hand, there is still a lot to do, and i am at your disposal to put together the best ideas and discuss how to proceed.
in writing.– whereas eu funding could boost the standard of living on islands, the latter could not just rely on eu funding. member states need to support sustainable projects and work to come up with tangible and innovative ideas and projects to improve connectivity to tackle the insularity challenge. islands by their very own nature were characterised by a number of challenges, mainly insularity. in a global world it is difficult to speak of insularity but due to bad policies adopted by certain member states, a number of islands were facing insularity challenges more than ever before, mostly because of connectivity issues. at times services by which islands are connected to mainland are deteriorating in terms of standard or frequency. this is evident in malta and italy. one could look at insularity as a resource and a characteristic that could attract to islands new economic sector case in point sustainable and high-quality tourism. member states need to heavily invest in a sustainable manner in islands and the commission has to identify innovative instruments to improve connectivity and tackle insularity and at the same time seek ways and means how to further implement the treaty to make more eu funding available for islands.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made by serbia so far which has brought it closer to european integration and the ambitious reform agenda set by its government. there is still a lot of work to be done and serbia should continue on its path of modernisation and further development and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ as an aspiring member state, serbia needs to ensure that it meets democratic standards including the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for minorities and good neighbourly relations. accession can only take place once these criteria are completely fulfilled, and the eu cannot afford to take on new member states that are not fully committed to these principles. the motion for resolution encourages political leaders in serbia to strengthen their endeavours in attaining such standards. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which welcomes the launch of negotiations with serbia and focuses on the developments made in the accession process of serbia to the eu last year. it must be noted that, while progress has been achieved last year in serbia’s reform agenda as well as in the normalisation of relations with kosovo, many pertinent issues remain unresolved. the deterioration of freedom of expression and media freedom, corruption and the lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns remain key issues, but the protection of minorities also requires immediate attention. with the upcoming early elections it is crucial that serbia further progresses with its eu agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is important to meaningfully analyse the happenings in serbia and to start the european integration process. this resolution also notes the positive steps serbia has taken with the drafting of a dedicated action plan for national minorities.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the 2015 progress report on serbia and the opening of first chapters end of last year and support the opening of chapters 23 and 24 in the eu enlargement negotiations with this important player in the western balkans this year. therefore, i voted in favour of this report. however, it should also be underlined that a lot of work lies ahead.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as i acknowledge the importance of the reforms already adopted in kosovo. however, there are still many areas that need to improve and hopefully the recent eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement will provide sufficient incentives for this. i am also hoping that the authorities will increase their engagement with the civil society as it is one of the most crucial steps towards a well-functioning democracy.
in writing. ‒ kosovo’s process of integration within the eu started in october 2015 with the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. the european union has continually indicated its willingness to assist kosovo in developing its political and economic structures through a clear european perspective which is based on firm respect for the rule of law. the report considers a number of issues on which kosovo has made positive progress as well as other processes which are still considered to be in a precarious situation. it seeks, however, to propose a way forward for national systems that are based on good governance values. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 progress report on kosovo, which welcomes the 2015 constitutional amendments that allowed for specialist (judicial) chambers to be set up for cross-border crimes, a commitment made in the context of the 1999 kosovo conflict, and welcomes the progress achieved in relations with serbia and visa liberalisation and the measures to curb irregular migration to the eu. the report highlights some challenges, too: that efforts to reform the public administration are commended but politicisation remains a concern; the lack of competitiveness, the informal economy and high unemployment are seen as the main economic flaws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is important to establish a european integration process to support kosovo. the resolution highlights and commends the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia which is a great achievement for both parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european integration process of kosovo, which in my opinion has a balanced text and welcomes the signature of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa) on 27 october 2015. the saa will provide a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms and will allow setting up cooperation in a wide variety of areas. it welcomes the progress done in 2015 in the framework of the process of normalization of relations between kosovo and serbia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as i am deeply concerned about the current situation in libya. the lack of a stable government and the wider political circumstances are of a significant advantage to daesh and other similar groupings, and all of this contributes to the deteriorating human rights situation. i welcome the un-backed libyan political agreement signed in december 2015 and i hope it will be successfully implemented, as it should result in greater political stability. i believe that economic recovery plays a significant part in greater political stability. i also hope that the wider international community will actively support libya in state- and institution-building.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution recognises the challenges that the breakdown of governance in libya poses to other states. it welcomes the un-backed libyan political agreement signed in december 2015, but identifies areas of concern. these include the growing presence of daesh in libya which continues to destabilise the country and threaten neighbouring countries as well as the porosity of libya’s borders due to a lack of central political control. both these circumstances greatly affect the european union and its citizens as it threatens to bring terror to european territory and facilitates the proliferation of weapons and the movement of armed groups. the resolution also encourages the commission and the european external action service to focus their efforts on supporting state building and institution building in libya and to cooperate with un in these efforts. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the situation in libya has continued to worsen over the past months. i believe that the issue had to be addressed earlier if all libyan parties reached a compromise. i still believe in a deal for the libyans by the libyans, as i have always emphasised. my biggest concern is that if sanctions are set at this point in time, the matter could again get out of control, due to a negative counter-reaction from the libyans. it is a fact that the daesh presence in libya makes it a matter of urgency for efforts against it to take off as soon as possible. however, this cannot be done if there is no genuine agreement among the libyan parties that can hold. more efforts are needed to bring all the disparate forces on board. for these reasons i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i signed and supported this cross party resolution on the situation in libya that expresses the parliament's commitment to supporting the libyan people during a time of serious crisis. an important point that the resolution makes is that of libyan ownership of the political process which must be promoted at every stage and at every level.
in writing. ‒ libya is in a complete chaos. the country has turned to a smuggling hub for refugees, a springboard for smugglers and a flourishing environment for terrorist organisation and growing threat of daesh. i supported the libyan political agreement on a national unity government. for me this long waited agreement was a vital step in bringing political, social and economic stability within libya. libya's has strategic position, not only for my country, but for the mediterranean region and for europe as a whole. a united government in libya will address the dramatic humanitarian, economic and security situation in the country and will ensure security and peace in the mediterranean region. i appeal to the house of representatives to show a spirit of good cooperation and to endorse the agreement. but we should understand that forcing an agreement on the libyan fractions and imposing sanctions on libya is also going to lead us to a dead end. as i disagree with some of the provisions in the resolution, i had to abstain at the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because islands within the european union do indeed face certain problems which are not common on mainland europe despite the ever-present struggle of the european union for the convergence of all its regions. islands have more natural barriers than mainland regions and therefore we need to do more in order to better exploit the available resources and opportunities so that they can overcome the obstacles to better development. for example, many of them are poorly connected to the mainland which results in economic and social marginalisation.
in writing. ‒ investing in the digital capacity of island regions is a vital means of counterbalancing the connectivity gaps of such regions, as industry may alleviate dependence on physical economies of scale. investments in infrastructure to ensure broadband access on islands and the full participation of islands in the digital single market are of crucial importance. these will generate quality jobs for our graduates and address the brain drain issues which island regions like gozo have been experiencing for years. even in the case of small member states like malta, the difference between the sister islands of gozo and malta shows significant divergences in the socio-economic sphere. this justifies the importance of supporting the sensitive development of island regions, including those which are densely populated. i support the call for the setting up of an ‘islands desk’ linked to the commission’s directorate-general for regional and urban policy (dg regio) made up of a small group of officials in order to coordinate and analyse issues relating to island regions. this will bring the eu closer to islands which often face insularity or double insularity. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that lists the european parliament's priorities surrounding the specific characteristics and features of island regions and their implications for these islands. some of these characteristics and features distinguish islands from the mainland regions and serve as permanent handicaps that require particular attention from the european commission. eu islands are many times particularly vulnerable to the challenges which europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially for the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows. in this regard, i believe that further studies are required to see how additional flexibility can be inbuilt in the new cohesion policy post-2020 to address the specific challenges faced by territories suffering from permanent disadvantages, including island member states and island regions.
in writing. ‒ coming from one of the union's island members i voted in favour of this resolution because it is vital to support european islands. the resolution calls attention to, among others, sustainable development on the islands, accessibility of regions, migration, climate change, and access to markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the insularity condition urging the european commission to take concrete steps to address the permanent handicaps that eu islands face and make full use of their potential. i believe that we need to stress the unique difficulties that southern insular regions face due to the increased migration flows and that special tax regimes should continue. i also strongly support the creation of "a homogenous group made up of all island territories", based on eu treaty article 174, which recognises the permanent handicaps of insular regions. in addition, the southern areas such as malta are particularly exposed to increased migration flows, therefore we need a eu-wide joint approach to support those areas and islands.
in writing. ‒ the removed paragraph stating that ‘certain handicaps are more difficult to cope with for islands than for island states’ was spurious and less than valid, with reference to island archipelagos with a population of less than say 2 million, as i vouch from personal experience. let me note too the significant problems that arise for islands without a national capital attached to an island state. here, given the double insularity, depopulation persists even when economic growth prevails. purely quantitative measures fail to account for this problem. i refer to the island of gozo. even now, with economic growth running at over 4 per cent per annum in the maltese islands, young people in gozo tell you they have no future on their island. depopulation will become irreversible unless exceptional measures are allowed which do not necessarily comply with wider eu rules and policies. these would involve a deeper economic intervention of the public sector in partnership with private business to create new enterprises, new jobs especially for young people. digital ventures, financial services, artisanal and farming enterprises, and health services could all be targeted to reverse depopulation, both when the national economy is performing healthily and when it is weak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree that the local and regional authorities play a very important role in the implementation of eu policies and strategies and that their role in the management of the european structural and investment funds should be strengthened as they are the closest to the people living there.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities are key players in shaping and implementing eu strategies without whom eu policy and action may not be relevant to the local communities to whom they are addressed. this resolution seeks to encourage the commission to follow more synergies with local and regional authorities even in the implementation of european structural and investment funds. i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities play a very important role within the framework of the european structural and investment funds as they are close to citizens and best understand their needs. on the other hand, due to their limited means they are in need of budgetary support for co-financing of projects. the motion for a resolution, which i voted in favour of, is addressed to the commission and asks questions as to how the ec is going to support regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported to this resolution because it is integral for supranational authorities within the union to work together with local and regional authorities throughout europe to improve economic and social development while tackling issues that affect different regions across the continent.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities play a very important role within the framework of the european structural and investment funds as they are close to citizens and best understand their needs. on the other hand - due to their limited means - they are in need of budgetary support for co-financement of projects. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esif).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am concerned by the current situation in yemen, which is a potential threat to international security and could have grave consequences. i am particularly worried about the fate of civilians that had been severely affected by the air-strikes and suffer from food and fuel shortages. the nationwide ceasefire declared in december should be reintroduced as soon as possible and negotiation discussions reopened. i am also hoping for an independent investigation into alleged war crimes, namely the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure such as hospitals.
in writing. ‒ ongoing hostilities in yemen are continuous causes of loss of life, bringing great suffering to the yemeni people and also continuous destabilisation of the governance structures. these circumstances also foster a fertile opportunity for isis-daesh and other terrorist and extremist organisations that wreak terror not only on yemenis, but also on other populations. the motion for a resolution recognises the importance of coordinated humanitarian action under un leadership, calls for compliance with international humanitarian and human rights law, and seeks protection for basic civilian infrastructure such as medical facilities and water systems. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is concerned about saudi-led coalition airstrikes and the naval blockade, which led to thousands of civilian deaths and the destruction of physical infrastructure in yemen, and also by the violent actions of the houthis. the european parliament stresses the need for coordinated humanitarian action under un leadership while urging both sides to comply with international humanitarian law and international human rights law for the protection of civilians. only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict can restore peace and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i signed and supported this cross-party resolution which aims to plot the way forward in alleviating the worsening humanitarian situation in yemen. the resolution highlights the fact that situation on the ground is being exacerbated by external actors and by extremist and terrorist forces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree that the persecutions of religious and ethnic minorities by the so-called isis/daesh should be recognised by the international community as genocide. while the european parliament has done so today, i hope that the un security council and other international organisations will also take such action. we must condemn all such violence and bring the perpetrators to justice.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution clearly expresses parliament’s disgust at the mass murder of groups of persons by terrorist organisations such as isis/daesh merely because they are a religious minority. a number of attacks on religious minorities have been taking place that show the extent of the terror brought about by such an organisation and highlight the importance of a unified voice between member states, the european union and other third countries against isis. the resolution also calls upon states to ensure the security of all religious minorities. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the un security council to take action against isis/daesh because of their persecution, atrocities and international crimes against minorities, which amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes according to the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc). parliament also denounces in the strongest terms the destruction of religious and cultural sites and artefacts by daesh, which constitutes an attack against the cultural heritage of all inhabitants of syria and iraq and of humanity at large.
in writing. ‒ i signed and voted in favour of this to cross party resolution as the international community needs to take as strong and as united a stance as possible against this terrorist organisation that is causing so much death and destruction.
in writing. ‒ islamic fundamentalism has become a global movement with its own ideology. we have to understand that in order to defeat terrorist organisations such as isil/daesh, we must first defeat their ideology and show to the world that violence is not the answer, because, killing innocent people is not being loyal to the true teaching of islam. there's too much at stake. non action is not an option. terrorism is a global threat with cross-border implications and therefore requires to be addressed in a coordinated way relying on cooperation, common strategies and eu-wide measures as part of an overall holistic eu framework. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis.
blue-card question.– we all know that mr farage has been working for britain to leave since i joined this parliament 11 years ago. he tried local elections in the united kingdom, but he did not have any success. then he went for the general elections in the united kingdom – hardly a success there; on the contrary, he secured a bigger majority for david cameron and the conservative party. if, in the referendum – which he always wanted – the majority of the british people say ‘yes’ to staying in the european union, will he call it a day and retire from politics, or would he want another chance to stay here, enjoying the company of us europeans? (applause)
madam president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, ms sofia ribeiro, for her excellent work on this dossier. it has to be acknowledged that the european semester has clearly shown that it provided the necessary tools that helped member states get out of the financial crisis, but the crisis has left its scars on the european social model. the challenge lies in strengthening the social dimension of the eu. it is encouraging to note that three new employment indicators have been added to the main scoreboard. in order to strengthen the recovery and foster upward economic and social convergence across member states, it is necessary to reform our economies and invest in human capital to create more jobs at all levels. europe has a number of tools at its disposal to achieve this: essentially the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the investment plan for europe. on both counts, we need to look carefully at improving its implementation and monitoring in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. finally, i believe that member states need to take a holistic approach to implementing effective labour market policies, targeting both jobseekers and employers. it is important to facilitate job-seeking in the european union through education, training and reskilling.
madam president, the real problem with the current economic performance in europe is investment. there is not enough of it, so growth is limited. the improvement – indeed the preservation – of social conditions for workers in employment, young people looking for a job, working families and pensioners is not in sight. these people claim that europe is failing them. the social compact on which it was established is no longer there. it is not populist to agree with those who make such claims, as they are right. the problem is not about agreeing or disagreeing with them. the problem is how to get economic growth back on track so that full—time, secure jobs are generated for young people and the old do not fear for their pensions. we do not need complex technocratic tools to solve this problem. we just need the political will to think outside the box into which we have squared ourselves, supposedly in order to satisfy the stability and growth pact. we need simple, decisive action that goes to the root of the problem: public and private investment. the record shows that private investment follows from public investment, not the other way round. public investment has been lagging. the juncker fund, worthwhile though it is, cannot cover the problem. moreover, public investment is more effective when deployed at national level when it does not have to depend on the delays of bureaucracy. if we can find ways and means of promoting national public investment that will in turn stimulate national and europe-wide private investment, would this breach the current rules of the stability and growth pact? possibly, yes. should we care much? in my view, no, so long as we make sure that added public spending on a national basis is really being dedicated to investment, not recurrent outlays.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank parliament for its support and the rapporteur, mr becker, and also the chair of the trilogue, for working so competently. i would also like to thank the entire negotiating team for their efforts and constructive approach. the new eures regulation is part of our broader policy to help people into a job and to facilitate the exercise of the freedom of movement of workers within the european union. eures is much more than a mobility portal. it is essentially a human network that provides support to jobseekers and employers across europe, and it is key to addressing high unemployment rates and skills mismatches. of course, while discussing labour mobility, it is important to ensure that this does not become a one—way street and does not result in a brain drain in some countries, especially new member states. there are more than 22 million people unemployed in the european union today, and yet there are 2 million unfilled vacancies advertised. it is clear that we can, and must, do more to help people into jobs and to help employers to find the workers they need, within the member states but also across borders. this is precisely what the eures regulation is about. therefore, the commission welcomes the timely agreement of the co-legislators. already today, the pan-european job search network, with its 34 european public employment services, is working successfully. for more than 20 years eures has helped people to find jobs in another member state through its web portal and its network of 1 000 advisers across the union. the new regulation builds on this work and strengthens eures further for the future. so what are the main improvements? more jobs will be advertised and there will be more effective automated online matching between the specific qualifications of job searchers and the skill requirements of specific vacancies, a broader network open to more members and partners and an agreed minimum package of services to jobseekers and to employers in all member states. it is good that the eures network will open up further to more members and partners, also including private employment services. we need to work together across silos and exploit synergies to be most effective. at the same time, those who join must be serious, reliable labour market actors and must be committed to building a responsible partnership within the network. with the new member organisation, eures should also become better known, since today too many job seekers and employers are simply not aware of its potential. members may want to promote its existence within their constituencies, in particular in regions with high unemployment or high skills shortages, or in border regions where the eures network can, for example, provide information on concrete social security or labour law questions that potential border workers are often confronted with. eures is indeed more than a pan—european job search tool. through its network across the union it can advise and assist in finding a job or a worker and give guidance on the many practical questions that still arise in the context of labour mobility. whereas today the services offered vary a lot among the member states, the regulation ensures that a minimum package of support services will be available everywhere. the council is expected to adopt the new regulation on 15 march. in the meantime, preparations with representatives of the member states of the eures network have started to ensure successful application of these rules as from the day of entry into force. within two years we will report on the state of play to parliament and the council, as well as to the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr heinz becker for his excellent work on this dossier. freedom of movement is one of the four basic freedoms on which the eu is founded and creates opportunities for both workers and companies and increases employment rates. however, we are still facing endemic mass unemployment, which places upon us the responsibility to improve labour mobility within the eu, not only by creating new opportunities but also by filling vacancies effectively to develop the european labour market, as the eu 28 mobility rate currently stands at a low of 0.29%. one method of encouraging employment and creating human capital is by not only reinforcing every eu citizen’s fundamental right of free movement but also removing possible obstacles which may obstruct intra-eu labour mobility throughout the union. this is where eures will aid in filling these vacancies. the eures database will help promote mobility and make the process of obtaining jobs in other member states much simpler. i believe that regulating and enhancing the eures network with the european classification tool will present more opportunities to fill job vacancies across eu borders.
in writing.– there should be consensus that we need – and that tunisia needs – this agreement. however across the divide of those signing the agreement, institutionally and economically, we are not operating at the same level. in agriculture, what trading concessions we concede to tunisia, weak though they seem from the south of the mediterranean, are perceived from the north as undermining the livelihood of farmers. the arrangements by which we try to detail the tax systems that the tunisian authorities should apply, can serve to undermine tunisia’s flexibility to enhance its endowments and attract direct investment. the institutions north and south of the mediterranean still do not converge, are still incompatible. this is not like judging whether the institutions of the north or of the south are ‘better’. this is a question of saying things as they are. convergence of institutions is an interactive process which cannot be finalised overnight. believing that convergence will happen just as a result of rapprochement with europe is an illusion. agreement with tunisia is imperative. not because sensational events of the recent past must be repeated, but because in the creation of convergent institutions north and south of the mediterranean, tunisia occupies a principal role.
in writing.– unfortunately, five years after the global commission on drug policy declared that the war on drugs had failed, we are still debating whether to update a three-decade-old global drugs policy. i believe that the failure in this field comes from a lack of understanding. we require a policy that addresses today’s realities, and this is what i urge the commission and the un to do. we require a policy that acknowledges the increased prevalence of synthetic psychoactive substances, which are very extremely life-threatening, the new dimensions of trafficking including silkroad and the darknet. these are realities that can be addressed only through a shift in policy. we must safeguard the best interests of our citizens and their families and only by addressing the now can we focus on the future.
ombudsman.– madam president, good morning and thank you to ms cabezón-ruiz and to all the shadow rapporteurs for your work over the past number of months on this report. the text before the chamber today shows a very clear understanding and support for my strategy for the office of the european ombudsman, for which i am profoundly grateful. as i have said on many occasions, my office cannot function as it should without the positive engagement of parliament, and time and time again, both i and my predecessors have received that vital support. we are a small office with fewer than 80 staff, but we are charged with a big mission on behalf of the citizens of europe. i will endeavour to play my role in helping the eu institutions to keep pace with the evolving and increasing expectations placed upon us by european citizens and forced upon us by events, and especially at this time. i would like to thank, in particular, the petitions committee for its engaged cooperation and support. in our separate but complementary roles, we work not in the abstract but directly with citizens as they come to us either to seek our help our to assert their rights, at a time when, as vice-president timmermans has spoken of so well and so frequently, the rule of law and democracy needs even more strongly to be upheld and defended throughout the union. honourable members, this is my second time addressing you in plenary since coming into office in october 2013. i have also addressed you in committee several times before the petitions, budget control, employment, legal affairs and civil liberties committees. each time i have benefited from your expertise, advice and support, and that has fed directly into the strategy that i have developed and which i am now implementing. i thank the petitions committee for welcoming specifically my strategic use of proactive inquiries and for the reorganisation of my office in order to better support the strategy. i use the strategic inquiry approach to enter a dialogue at the highest levels in order to assist the institutions to achieve the highest possible standards of public administration. however, my office is, and always will be, driven by the complaints we receive. today’s report notes that over 20% of complaints follow a refusal of an access to documents request. transparency and the treaty-based right of access to documents must play a crucial part, both in democratic participation and in democratic accountability. the eu does set higher standards than many member states, but perhaps, given its reach and its role, so it should, and so should it also strive to achieve even higher standards. thank you to ms cabezón ruiz for welcoming my focus on the challenge of the so-called revolving doors issue in the eu. that is when officials leave the service for the private sector, allowing a potential conflict of interest to arise. my inquiry into how the european commission deals with it has resulted in some positive improvements and, notably, the publication by the commission, for the first time ever, of the list of names of senior officials who left for new jobs, with details of their move and assessments of any potential conflict of interest. this list will now be published annually, in accordance with the staff regulations, and i thank the budget control committee for its attention to this important issue. the report also recognises the real progress by the commission, following my inquiry, and much pressure of course from this parliament, on the transparency of the ttip negotiations. this was an excellent example, in my view, of the ombudsman, parliament and administration working together for a better outcome for citizens. the issue of lobbying transparency also features in my work. i have welcomed the juncker commission’s work in this area, through its transparency initiative, and have encouraged more to be done. i should, however – and conscious that issues concerning the tobacco industry will shortly be discussed in this chamber – express my disappointment at the commission’s recent decision not to accept my recommendation for the proactive publication of all meetings with that industry, and not just – as is currently the case – with dg health. the legally-binding un framework convention on tobacco control, to which the eu is signatory, is predicated on the recognition of the tobacco industry as one to whom the normal rules of industry-government dialogue should not apply. briefly, we have also recently worked with the ecb on their transparency and ethics policies, and i am happy to see the ecb executive board now publish details of their meetings. i would like to thank president mario draghi for his cooperation on these issues, which are so vital for the public trust. as for the commission, i expect shortly to receive its response to my strategic inquiry on expert groups and on dg agriculture’s civil dialogue groups. i also very much welcome the upcoming public consultation on how to improve the transparency register, and i support a mandatory register. such a register should not only have real sanctions but also full financial transparency requirements, to make sure that everyone is aware of who precisely is registering and being given access to decision-makers. thank you to ms cabezón ruiz for raising clinical trials’ transparency in her report, an issue about which i know she feels very strongly. i am continuing my inquiry into the public disclosure of clinical studies reports relating to humira, a multibillion-euro drug sold worldwide. the report also recognises the work of my office in relation to how to ensure european fundamental rights and migration. i wish to thank members for your overwhelming support for my special report to parliament following the refusal of frontex to establish a complaints mechanism. following the parliamentary vote in plenary, i thank the commission for including my recommendations on the complaints mechanism and on the treatment of people being deported from the eu in its new border agency proposal. ms cabezón ruiz’s report also recognises the work of my office in the areas of whistle-blowing, fundamental rights and eu cohesion policy, the european citizens’ initiative, and in relation to the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities. another new strategic initiative concerns the european network of ombudsmen, which i have the honour to chair, and the development of parallel inquiries into issues relevant to both eu and national and regional levels. this june, i will also host a major network conference in brussels, inviting all national and regional ombudsmen to discuss and debate issues of mutual relevance. this will not just be an opportunity for us at the eu level to learn from their experiences but also for them to learn about the things that the eu institutions do well and which too often go remarked or unnoticed. an invitation to all members to this conference will be sent to you in the coming weeks. one final issue concerns the compliance rate of the eu institutions to my recommendations. for many years, this is been around 80%, and i note the continued concern of the parliament at the 20% non-compliance rate in my 2014 annual report. however, i am happy to report to you today, already, that the figure in the 2015 annual report has risen to 90% – a very satisfactory achievement, which would not have been possible without the increased support of all of the eu institutions and agencies, and especially the support of this house. before i conclude i think it important to put on record again how impressed i am by the high standards of the european civil service, of the thousands of dedicated people who work in the eu institutions and agencies all over europe. the vast majority work hard to achieve high standards in their work and display a true ethic of public service. people will regain trust in their governing administrations when they begin to see positive changes for their families in their daily lives. this is mainly a political challenge, but a strong and ethical public administration is often what separates strong democracies around the world from weak and failed states. in order to achieve higher levels of popular legitimacy, it is important for the eu administration to be not only of the highest possible quality, but indeed the ‘gold standard’ in ethics, transparency, accountability and effectiveness. my task as european ombudsman is to work with those institutions and agencies, and to work with this parliament, to help to make that happen. finally, let me conclude by again thanking the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, their staff and the secretariats for all the work on this report, and i look forward to your contributions.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms cabezón ruiz for her excellent report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. the commission considers the work of the european ombudsman in fighting maladministration to be of the utmost importance. good administration in the service of european citizens is our shared objective, and in that sense the spanish translation of ‘ombudsman’ really describes the function in a perfect way – defensor del pueblo. i would like, therefore, to take the opportunity to thank the ombudsman for her efforts, for the consistently good cooperation with her and her services, and for the excellent quality of her work. the report in particular comments on the importance of the ombudsman’s work on transparency as a guarantee of good administration. in that regard, let me recall that the commission has set itself very ambitious objectives on transparency and has taken important steps in that regard which have also been acknowledged in the report. for instance, we decided that as from 1 december 2014, all commissioners, their cabinet members and directors-general have to publish information on meetings with stakeholders and lobbyists. moreover, the commission has also ensured an unprecedented degree of transparency in the context of the ttip negotiations. this is one of the elements of the dynamic relationship, i can say, with the european parliament. the commission welcomes the fact that the ombudsman, as well as the committee on petitions (peti), has commended the commission for its pro-active approach in both areas, and i of course will then also have to commend parliament for taking such an active role in bringing this about. the commission has also accepted the majority of the ombudsman’s recommendations in relation to the ‘revolving doors’ issue and adopted last year its first annual report concerning the occupational activities of senior officials after leaving the services. the commission has also committed itself to improving the functioning and transparency of expert groups. there are also other important areas where the ombudsman’s recommendations have been followed up by the commission. for instance, we have taken numerous steps to make the citizens’ initiative more user-friendly, reflecting the recommendations of the ombudsman. in its proposals for a european border and coast guard – and the ombudsman already referred to that – the commission has included a complaint mechanism for fundamental rights issues. that is how we took into account the suggestion made by the ombudsman in the recommendations in the frontex investigation, so i think we did what you wanted us to do on this. this brings me to the comments in the report about the compliance rates of the institutions. i think we, as the commission, had a generally high compliance rate. in 2014 it was 86%, and i am very glad to hear today the ombudsman’s answer that for 2015 it will be 90%. let us try and improve that even further. it is important to look at the commission’s approval rate, because we are concerned in about 60% of all the cases, so it is very important that we do our best to approach 100% as much as we can. naturally, over the years the compliance rates may vary, as the cases and the conclusions of the ombudsman are different every year. however, the commission always takes the ombudsman’s remarks very seriously, and we will comply with her recommendations whenever possible. she referred to one issue where we did not agree, and we will come back to the issue of the tobacco industry at a later stage also in the european parliament. i want to conclude by again thanking the rapporteur and you for this debate, and i want to confirm that the commission is looking forward to continuing our excellent cooperation with the ombudsman and her services. i can say also, as a personal remark, that ms o’reilly fully deserves the title defensor del pueblo.
on behalf of the s&d group. in one year, more than 23 000 citizens requested assistance from the ombudsman's services. this large number of complaints is a clear indication of the importance of this service that the european parliament offers its citizens. the european ombudsman has an important role to play in ensuring that citizens' rights are respected and that the institutions of the european union are made more effective, more citizen-friendly, and helpful, with the aim of further enhancing the trust of citizens of the european union. but we do not laugh at ourselves. the european union has not yet reached the desired level of transparency and accountability. if we are to guarantee citizens' trust and respect, and that good administration reflects and exemplifies the highest standards of the european institutions, there is still work to be done. the european ombudsman and the peti committee can help put citizens at the heart of the decision-making process, with the opportunity to integrate and reflect their thoughts at european level. i therefore welcome both the ombudsman o'reilly report and the peti committee report by the rapporteur soledad cabezón ruiz.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratification of and accession to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters by austria and malta as it allows for the cross-border service of documents in or from third countries without the use of consular or diplomatic services. it has already proved to be very useful and makes the entire procedure much faster and in most cases much cheaper.
in writing. ‒ the convention only applies to the cross-border service of documents in or from third countries for cross-border service within the european union, improving the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents abroad. this convention facilitates judicial cooperation in cross-border litigation thereby benefiting citizens in cross-border proceedings even with third country connections. the convention has been broadly ratified, having 67 contracting states. malta should not waste time in ratifying this convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention provides for the channels of transmission to be used when a judicial or extrajudicial document is to be transmitted from one state party to the convention to another state party. i voted in favour of this report as the framework that it provides is both efficient and effective. the convention already applies to 26 member states, with malta and austria indicating their wish to join, i support the view that, in accordance with article 3(2) tfeu and court of justice opinion 1/13, the union must authorise both malta and austria to act on its behalf in order to accede to the convention. this accession would be beneficial for both the union and the two member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution as it is in malta’s and the union’s best interest to have a uniform system for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on authorisation for austria to sign and ratify, and malta to accede to, the hague convention of 15 november 1965 since this convention has proven its usefulness in the field of the cross-border service of documents. twenty-six member states already apply the convention. austria and malta, as the two remaining member states, have indicated their wish to join. it is in the interest both of the union as a whole and of the two member states in question to have a single regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the successful council negotiations with san marino in relation to the savings directive. its aim is to update the existing agreement in line with international developments and the changing eu laws. i voted in favour of the report so that the outcomes of the negotiations can be applied as soon as possible and the automatic exchange of information can be continued. this will allow for a continued and smooth cooperation in the area of taxation, including the combat against tax evasion and tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments through automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion, will enhance transparency, accountability and ethical financial management. the resolution develops the 2004 agreement with san marino further. economies need to ensure fair administration and enforcement of their tax laws even in cross-border situations.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between the european union and san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement is a positive step forward in addressing tax fraud and tax evasion. the outcome of this agreement would result in a strengthened relationship between the european union and san marino, in line with oecd standards. i am in favour of this agreement being concluded and ratified in a timely manner, and of keeping the transitional phase as short as possible. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal because it seeks to update the existing agreements that san marino has with the union and enacts measures that are in sync with the upgraded eu legal framework to effectively investigate and prosecute tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement because it is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the commission recommendation for croatian accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union as soon as possible. following the accession of croatia to the european union almost three years ago, all necessary conventions, international treaties and other laws already in place in the eu should also be adopted by croatia as soon as possible in order to avoid a legal vacuum.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of croatia acceding to these conventions and protocols with immediate effect, marking the next step to further adherence within the european framework.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the consultation of parliament on a proposed recommendation for a council decision on croatia’s accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests. i voted in favour of this report as it is a positive step forward in tackling fraud against the budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important that croatia, the newest member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements and is an equal partner in our union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia’s accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests (pif) since it is important to call for the immediate re-starting of negotiations on the pif directive to properly tackle fraud against the budget of the european union
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i fully agree that workers need to access mobility services as a means to increase access to employment opportunities. it should help to overcome labour shortages in some areas and reduce unemployment in others. the eu member states need a common framework on labour mobility, one that would, among others, abolish any discrimination, provide adequate social services for mobile workers and generally ensure sustainable employment. another important element is the reorganisation of the european job mobility portal (eures); this is a good way to start. although the facility has already proven very useful for jobseekers, much more could be done in this area, like the extension of the eures network to apprenticeships and traineeships.
in writing. ‒ intra-eu labour mobility remains relatively low when seen in the context of the size of the labour market and the active population of the eu. we still have a mobility rate in the eu-27 which is only 0.29%. the key remains that of focusing our action more on young people, who are more willing to be mobile. minimum standards of recognition, equivalence structures as well as common rules will continue to facilitate labour mobility, thereby addressing skill gaps that are particular to different member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the integration of the labour markets and the entitlement of the freedom to work are an indispensable tool to address the high rates of unemployment. this regulation aims to turn the eures network into an effective instrument for jobseekers or employers, by creating the largest framework of vacancies and jobseeker profiles, accessible eu-wide. the proposal also ensures that the labour market policy remains a member state competence. i am in favour of this report as i believe that all jobseekers should be able to have access to all the information needed and that a user-friendly framework would be a positive step forward in tackling unemployment.
in writing. ‒ whilst maintaining that labour market policy is a national competence, this report seeks to promote the european employment services (eures) network as an effective tool for jobseekers to find employment by taking advantage of the freedom of movement within the european union. i voted in favour of this report as we should support labour mobility across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the report on the european network of employment services, workers’ access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets (eures), because the main purpose of eures is to provide information, advice and recruitment/placement services for the benefit of workers and employers wishing to benefit from the principle of the free movement of persons. the new database should become smarter by automatically matching the cvs with job offers. in addition, all vacancies published by public or private employment agencies will be published eu-wide by eures as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i strongly believe that the european union must support tunisia to regain stability, particularly since it is facing a politically and economically difficult period. terrorist attacks in tunisia are leading to difficulties, primarily in the economy. stronger trade relations with the european union would be beneficial for tunisia to be able to revive its economy. i am in favour of the legislation proposed as it is a concrete example of eu support towards stability in tunisia, which ultimately would contribute to stability in the mediterranean region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these trade measures as it is important that the european union sends the message that we are ready to assist tunisia’s economic recovery and tackle the level of unemployment amongst its youth whilst at the same time preserving the stability of the european union’s olive oil market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and its application to the glass sector in the wallonia region, especially in the areas of namur and hainaut which have experienced great economic hardships in recent years. too many jobs have been lost and too many people remain in unemployment since august 2014 when the redundancies began. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support such workers and help them find new jobs and i agree that it should be mobilised to help the glass sector in wallonia.
in writing. ‒ i agree with an efficient mobilisation criterion to increase efficiency for the treatment of european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) applications in the commission and by parliament and the council by shortening the time for assessment and approval. the use of the globalisation fund will focus on more personalised services facilitating job-search, integrating a training component even through transfer of experience, and inducing support for enterprise creation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that european workers should be provided with solutions in cases of redundancies as a result of serious disruptions in the european union. i voted in favour of this report as it gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in belgium which relates to the application in respect of 412 redundancies in hainaut- namur glass which were caused by a serious disruption of union trade in glass products.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the european union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 412 workers in the glass sector in belgium due to global financial issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, which gives the green light for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in belgium. the application relates to 412 redundancies in hainaut-namur glass, operating in the manufacture of glass products, within the period 31 august 2014 – 31 may 2015. the egf funding of eur 1 095 544 will contribute to helping 412 former workers through a coordinated package of integrated training, facilitating job-search, support/guidance/integration, transfer of experience, support for enterprise creation, support for collective projects and allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i fully support the inclusion of a single market pillar under the european semester. this should allow for better cohesion and coordination of our policies, enhanced competitiveness, and creation of growth and jobs. it is worrying, however, that some member states have still not fully implemented the services directive, whose aim is to further reduce barriers to trade and thereby encourage growth.
in writing. ‒ there is a gradually declining debt-to-gdp ratio for the eu and euro area. this progress needs to be sustained and complemented through more involvement of local and regional authorities through the european fund for structural investments (efsi) vehicle by developing project pipelines and investment platforms laying out synergies between european structural and investment funds improvements in national education, vocational training and lifelong learning systems are needed for learners to adapt to the new skills and knowledge demanded by the eu labour market. investment is also another key driver of growth as it will continue to stimulate job creation. furthermore, removing unnecessary obstacles to speed up the implementation of cohesion fund roll-out through simplification, adhering squarely to the principle of subsidiarity and widening more the pool of beneficiaries, can render beneficial spill-over effects in our societies.
in writing. ‒ economic policy coordination is fundamental in ensuring economic growth. growth is an important step forward to ensure an economy which is stable and prosperous. economic growth leads to a reduction in poverty, a decrease in unemployment rates, less deficits and higher living standards, which are all areas of concern for the union. we need stronger safeguards to our economy and this is why i voted in favour of this report as it addresses and develops the means to address these challenges. this report also contributes to the fundamental important basis of having a more effective european semester report. i believe that it is important to address the quality of jobs and to have a more inclusive labour market. the union needs to rely much more on internal demand and to increase private and public investment. economic growth must be based on a differentiated approach on a country-by-country basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it represents parliament’s commitment to building upon the recent economic recovery in the european union and also implementing a long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2016 because the eu can no longer rely on exports with the slowdown of the world economy. it needs to rely much more on internal demand and more private and public investment. surplus countries need to expand their budgets in order to support investment and growth everywhere in the eu while deficit countries need to be allowed more fiscal space through the flexibility instrument to invest more. however, there are some sensitive points and i believe should remain an issue of the national competences.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the priorities of the commission: investment, structural reforms and modernisation, and the fact that the annual growth survey 2016 will pay much more attention to social aspects and investment in people. although the unemployment rate is falling, thanks to reforms, many initiatives and investment, there is still a lot more that can be done with youth and long-term unemployment being particularly worrying. the objectives outlined in this year’s survey, such as upward social convergence, broader investment in education and training as well as more focus on the digital economy, are very promising.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey 2016 is the first important step in the annual cycle. i positively believe that the introduction of specific recommendations for the euro area is significant and important progress. i strongly believe in the need for further inclusion in the employment sector as well as a solid framework inducing more social protection systems. the introduction of the minimum income is a crucial and fundamental step forward in the labour market. we need to further address youth unemployment, as well as re-enforcing measures on labour safeguards to promote social inclusion. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution which is in sync with the commission’s priorities for 2016: investment in citizens and using structural reforms to modernise our economies in a fiscally sound manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016, because i believe that the eu can no longer rely on exports with the slowdown of the world economy and it needs to rely much more on internal demand and more private and public investment. however, there are some sensitive points and i believe should remain an issue of the national competences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the recommendations of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for this year’s european semester. i agree that the single market strategy should be included as one of the pillars of the european semester. it is a very promising strategy aiming to fully explore the potential of the single market, and if properly implemented and focused on, it could be very beneficial, resulting in job creation and growth. again, i express my regrets that the services directive has not been fully implemented by all member states.
in writing. ‒ a greater choice of high-quality products and services and lower prices for consumers can be further enhanced through systematic monitoring of the implementation and enforcement of the single market rules by country-specific recommendations (csrs). the issue of research and development (r&d) raised in this report indicates that only 17% of firm investment goes towards scientific r&d. clearly we still lack the necessary drive by our policymakers to work on removing regulatory barriers as well as to facilitate increased investment in r&d. i agree with the resolution seeking a speedy delivery and implementation of the digital strategy to ensure the eu regains lost ground in relation to the previously slow adoption and use of digital technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it restates the importance of the inclusion of a single market pillar in the european semester process highlighting the significant contribution for jobs and growth that could derive from the effective completion of the single market. such inclusion should encompass, among others, specific indicators and benchmarks related to the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that increased transparency and better governance are necessary to ensure that the single market continues to increase employment within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on single market governance within the european semester 2016, because the eu can no longer rely on exports with the slowdown of the world economy. it needs to rely much more on internal demand and more private and public investment. surplus countries need to expand their budgets in order to support investment and growth everywhere in the eu while deficit countries need to be allowed more fiscal space through the flexibility instrument to invest more.
in writing. ‒ i fully welcome the launch of negotiations for modernisation of our current association agreement with tunisia in october 2015, however difficult they turn out to be. if successful, the outcomes will have many economic benefits to both parties as well as political importance for tunisia. i am hoping that the negotiations will involve many partners, not only tunisian authorities but also social partners and greater civil society so that the final agreement can be of benefit to all.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu must continue with its aid to tunisia and provide the country with appropriate financial and technical assistance, during the negotiations and, subsequently, during the implementation of the agreement’s provisions, by developing a genuine partnership in which the interests of people on both shores of the mediterranean can be taken into account. i hope that this agreement promotes further scientific cooperation, particularly between universities and research centres in europe and tunisia towards the development of new technologies and, more generally, culture and education.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations initiated for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement aim at improving market access and investment opportunities, and supporting ongoing reforms in tunisia, in order to integrate further tunisia, which is currently faced with economic and political disturbances, into the eu and world economy. i believe that negotiations should be based on a staged process including transition periods and specific monitoring and attention to sensitive sectors and public services. it is important to have transparent negotiations and also to reform specific situations such as corruption. nevertheless, i voted against a paragraph relating to tax since i believe that tax matters are dealt with in a council body which is vested with such competences. overall, i strongly agree that we need to help tunisia to reform and to induce inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because improving trade relations with tunisia will not only help the economies of eu member states, but will help boost the tunisian economy and help support its political transition process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a good analysis of activities of the european ombudsman for the year 2014. i particularly welcome the own initiative investigations regarding transparency of the european institutions as well as fundamental rights and lobbying and the fact that full powers of the ombudsman are used to make our union better. i greatly appreciate the work of the european ombudsman as it contributes to legitimacy, transparency and the overall functioning of the european institutions and brings them closer to the citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ensuring citizens’ rights are fully respected and the right to good administration is constantly pursued reflect the highest standards expected of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union. in this sense there is no doubt that the european ombudsman plays a vital role in helping eu institutions become more open, effective and citizen-friendly with the aim of strengthening citizens’ confidence in the union. the results of the eurobarometer survey of may 2015 are nonetheless worrying: 40% of citizens trust in the european union and 46% do not. it is commendable that the institutions have complied with 80% of the ombudsman’s proposals but this needs to be increased.
in writing. ‒ the european ombusdman investigates complaints about poor administration by eu institutions or other eu bodies on the basis of complaints which are lodged by citizens or residents of the eu or by eu-based associations or businesses. i voted in favour of this report as the work of the ombudsman induces further transparency. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european ombudsman should have greater power to launch investigations in order to have a transparent union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which recognises the important work done by emily o’reilly as the eu ombudsman in 2014, which has seen good results for the union’s work.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the european ombudsman, that welcomes the ombudsman’s greater use of her power to launch investigations on her own initiative such as on transparency in the ttip negotiations, how frontex ensures the respect of fundamental rights of migrants who are subject to forced returns; the composition of the commission’s expert groups, clinical trials, and lobby activities, as well as her work towards a mandatory transparency register. other key investigations for 2014 include participation of citizens in eu decision-making (in particular into the functioning of the eci); eu funded projects and programmes; and eu competition policy.
in writing. ‒ following the very difficult negotiations, i voted in favour of this report on the activities of the european central bank in the year 2014, which, despite an improved situation, was still an economically challenging year, with the ecb having to lower its key refinancing rates and reduce its deposit facility rate. i agree with the recommendations that the ecb should put greater effort into the creation of more favourable financing conditions – private and public investment are crucial for economic growth and the subsequent creation of jobs and wealth. i welcome the attempts by the european central bank to boost inflation to around 2% and the steps taken to improve transparency of the bank to make it more accountable and visible to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ findings show that real gdp is predicted to rise by 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017 however, it is becoming more evident that the foundations for growth are fragile hence requiring a stronger dose of political commitment. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are fundamental in this respect as they represent 99% of all businesses and account for 80% of jobs in the union, thus having a key role in generating economic growth, creating jobs and narrowing social disparities. banks have an important role to play by making access to funding more efficient and less bureaucratic.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank has played an important and crucial role during the economic crises faced by the union. however, i believe that we need to create a common basis framework to increase investments and to have balanced structural reforms. i voted in favour of this report, as the european central bank is playing a positive role by the implementation of a non-conventional monetary policy operations. we need to address the limitations of monetary policy. i also strongly agree that the ecb needs to provide an assessment and clarify its scope about the involvement in the troika and quadriga framework. i voted against an amendment which was presented by over 40 meps which called for the possibility to use ecb profits for creating an eu own resource.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. the european central bank has a role to play in reducing unemployment rates and debt burdens across europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the annual report of the european central bank, because it is playing a positive, key, role with its non-conventional monetary policy operations. the report calls for better targeted investments and positive, socially balanced, structural reforms. however, i have voted against amendment 12, which calls for the possibility to use ecb profits for creating an eu own resource because i am not in agreement with this particular amendment.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the economic importance of relations between the eu and australia and new zealand and i fully support the negotiations for a new trade agreement. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as such agreements will strengthen and deepen our economic and political ties and will bring benefits to all parties. i am of the opinion that the negotiations should focus, beside the traditional goods and services, on e-commerce, technology, innovation and common standards.
in writing. ‒ new zealand is one of the few countries to be recognised by the commission as having an adequate level of private data protection. fta negotiations with australia and new zealand need to consider opportunities as well as difficulties that may be created for european smes.
in writing. ‒ with the commission proposal of ‘trade for all’ and the union seeking to negotiate directives for trade agreements between australia and new zealand, i believe that labour protection and transparency standards need to be included in the negotiations. a joint civil society forum is needed in order to have an effective monitoring of implementation of the parties’ respect for their commitments and obligations. these negotiations must seek to safeguard human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. the negotiations should be based on the principle of sustainability. however, the negotiations are a positive step forward, and this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of opening up fta negotiations with australia and new zealand because deepening ties with two close partners in the rapidly developing asia-pacific region is important for europe and for the two nations’ economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for strong trade and sustainable development chapters in any newly launched trade negotiations with australia and new zealand.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because action needs to be taken to improve the registration of pet animals in the european union. shortcomings are still present in the areas of identification, registration and transport of pet animals, which may have negative consequences on animal but also human health. i also recognise the dangers of keeping wild animals as pets and believe that regulation needs to be improved in this area.
in writing. ‒ there is ample evidence of a growing illegal trade in pet animals, with widespread abuse of the pet travel scheme through evasion of controls and document falsification. this carries a cross-boarder concern which needs to be addressed by streamlining identification documents for the non-commercial movement of dogs, cats and ferrets. public health is a primary concern. improving patient safety and fighting antimicrobial resistance is also something which i support considering that 70% of the new diseases that have emerged in humans over recent decades are of animal origin, and animals commonly kept as pets.
in writing. ‒ combating the growing illegal trade in pet animals is an important issue that needs an effective and solid framework in order to be addressed properly. we should seek a system which takes into account and complements the rules that are already in place. we need greater traceability, a system providing an efficient identification procedure. as i strongly believe that the member states should ensure compatible pet registration systems, which is important in order to tackle the growing illegal trade in pets, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to ensure the wellbeing of pet animals across the eu. by allowing for intra-union traceability, pets can be transported easily across the eu, vaccination rates will improve and illegal trading of pets can be curtailed.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across member states, which calls for establishment of robust compatible registration and id systems throughout the ms to improve traceability and deter illegal trading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am deeply concerned about the situation in yemen which does not seem to be improving. the ongoing conflict has a severe impact on the local civilian population, leaving hundreds dead and many more injured. malnutrition is also an enormous problem, affecting children in particular, who additionally also suffer from limited access to educational facilities. the hostilities are destabilising the entire region and i worry that they may eventually pose a threat to peace and security on a wider scale. i therefore hope for coordinated humanitarian action under un leadership and a swift resolution of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ before we seek a closer relationship with yemen, which would provide for trade, economic and development cooperation, i believe that we need to engage more politically with trusted parties towards true democratic reform. this trust needs to be gained also with countries like saudi arabia and iran, who are mentioned in this resolution as key drivers in resolving this situation. the resolution provides for improved security responding to basic needs which are lacking like water shortage and the need to start to build trust by introducing economic diversification as a stepping stone towards the continuous democratisation process to bring radical challenges for the country. we need to build further on recent cooperation agreements and programmes, but let us not miss the ultimate priority that the eu has, which is cooperation to support yemen’s policy to promote good governance and to fight against poverty. the recent attack on an msf health centre in the razeh district further depicts the pressing security situation which the inhabitants are experiencing on a daily basis. this further reaffirms that the solution to the conflict must be a political one. we need to engage without preconditions and in good faith in another round of un-facilitated negotiations with immediate effect because the humanitarian situation is of unprecedented proportions.
in writing. ‒ as i am extremely concerned about the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen, which is characterised by widespread food insecurity and severe malnutrition and indiscriminate attacks against civilians and medical and aid workers, the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure, i gave my support to this resolution. we need to address the unstable situation in yemen effectively.
in writing. ‒ i signed and supported this cross-party resolution which aims to plot the way forward in alleviating the worsening humanitarian situation in yemen. the resolution highlights the fact that the situation on the ground is being exacerbated by external actors and by extremist and terrorist forces.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, which criticises the actions of the saudi-led coalition in yemen that has led to a humanitarian crisis. it also criticises the actions of the houthi rebels in yemen. the resolution acknowledges that the arms sales from the eu member states to saudi arabia, as one of the belligerent parties, are in violation of the eu common position on arms sales control. the resolution calls for the consideration of establishing an arms embargo on saudi arabia, in accordance with the eu common position on arms sales, which rules out selling arms in cases where is a risk that they can be used to commit violations of international humanitarian law, which appears to be the case in the saudi-led coalition’s war in yemen.
madam president, i have supported this regulation, i support all the legislation that regulates the status of animals and their protection. in this case, it is more a question of technical standards to deal with the prevention of animal diseases and then with the procedures to deal with a situation where a disease becomes an epidemic. i'm a little sorry that the text doesn't address ethical standards, say, animal welfare. i am at least a little reassured that the document includes a statement by the commission which calls attention to the welfare of animals. so for the future, it would be good if we didn't just regulate technical standards for how to treat animals in the event of disease, but also addressed more how to improve the status of animals as living creatures who feel, who suffer in some way, and for whom an advanced civilization should have a different understanding than for things that are of a material or immaterial nature.
madam president, in recent years, progress on animal welfare legislation at eu level has slowed down, but today we have made significant progress with the adoption of the animal health legislation. despite the fact that the law approved today is not a specific animal welfare law, it is a milestone in animal welfare and could become a real turning point in the way animals are treated, both in the european union and worldwide. this legislation finally provides concrete measures governing animal health and animal welfare, requiring keepers and pet breeders to apply the principle of good animal husbandry and humane treatment to avoid pain, distress and suffering of animals. the animal welfare provisions would also apply to all animals – not just kept animals, but also strays. i fully support this law, which, in my opinion, is a starting point for a new wave of concrete european activities aimed at granting all animals a much higher level of protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the council position on the given legislative proposal because it provides simple and transparent rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases that can be transmitted to other animals and even humans. it also allows space to accommodate new challenges that fall into this category, like new diseases or changes in trading conditions. it emphasises the link between animal welfare and public health. additionally, i welcome the commission’s commitment to publishing regular reports on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals in the eu and to pay close attention to the general welfare of animals.
in writing. ‒ the increased use of antimicrobials in products that we consume are a concern that has been raised by individual citizens. it is therefore positive to note that this recommendation for a second reading contains the commitment to publish a regular report on the use of microbial medicinal products on animals in eu. this will, however, necessitate a serious commitment by member states on the collection of data.
in writing. ‒ i believe that necessary action is required to ensure animal health, welfare and public health. i voted in favour of this report, which merges and updates old legislation and would therefore be the first-ever eu legislation that would establish and introduce a link between these three important health factors. i believe that this report outlines a clear framework and clarifies the responsibilities of the relevant stakeholders. through this report, we are ensuring that, via implementation of the measures listed, the spreading of diseases will be prevented, and are thus safeguarding public health and also agricultural production. this legislation promotes further accountability of professional pet keepers and sellers on the transmission of animal diseases from strays or illegally traded pets. i believe that this legislation is an important safeguard and provides a guideline for each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection of this resolution because it is important that the union moves forward with legislation to prevent and control animal diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the scheme as i am quite concerned at the alarming decline of the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk products among the young people as well as the high levels of child obesity in the eu. i welcome the proposal to use the eu funds to finance the distribution of fresh fruit and vegetables as well as milk and other dairy products, including lactose-free, in schools. i believe that that this should be accompanied by formal education in order to teach young people about the impact the choice of food has on our bodies and general well-being and the impact of its cultivation on the environment. i agree that healthy eating habits should be encouraged from the earliest age.
in writing. ‒ as legislators we should reduce red tape which deters schools from participating, especially so that schools seeking to participate in both programmes should not be obliged to fill out two separate sets of forms or be subject to a variety of monitoring procedures. i concur that member states should be left to decide and put in their strategy which fresh products should be distributed (and how) insofar as these promote healthy eating habits, including among children; ensure that their authorities responsible for nutrition and/or health agree carry out the necessary nutritional enforcement and that eu funding supplements, not replaces, national financing. let us make best use of this scheme not to just increase awareness about healthy nutrition from an early age but also to heighten the visibility of european union aid amongst our families.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on merging the school milk programme and the fruit and vegetable scheme for schools into a single programme. it is an important step forward in ensuring a more efficient use of schemes which ensures that the necessary measures to promote healthy and fresh food in our educational institutions are being implemented. i believe that this is necessary to further contribute to the current obesity problem in the european union member states. it is important to have safeguards in place, specifically regarding processed foods, added sweeteners, artificial flavours and other additives such as sugar and salt. we need to make sure that children have healthy eating habits and this can take place through educational measures which are listed in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which seeks to tackle the decline in consumption of fruits, vegetables and milk products amongst children and youths. i am happy to support this proposal after a long negotiation procedure between the institutions, as it promotes a healthy lifestyle with a focus on fresh produce.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on aid schemes for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in the educational establishments, which is essential to promote consumption of healthy, fresh foods by schoolchildren, helping them establish healthy eating habits – especially important when we are facing an epidemic of obesity. management will now be more efficient through a single, visible programme with the milk part operating in parallel with the fruit and vegetable strand. the budget has been clearly established in this text, enabling member states to plan this action over the medium to long term.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the measures outlined in the commission proposal as well as this report, which aim to make our maritime ports more modern, efficient and environmentally sustainable and to interconnect them in line with the ten-t objectives. i am particularly glad that the report also mentions employment and social aspects, namely that the national social standards are the minimum criteria that have to be complied with. i agree that our ports should be as safe and secure as possible. however, i also think that there are some details that still need to be discussed and additional proposals to be considered and i therefore voted to temporarily postpone the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to enhance the long-term competitiveness of european industries in world markets while adding value and jobs in all european union coastal regions. particular aspects that are fundamentally important are the proposal for training of new recruits and the lifelong training of staff as essential elements for ensuring port workers’ health and safety. this is important not only to the workers but also to the quality of services and the competitiveness of eu ports. compliance with labour standards is not an option; the exercise of legitimate collective bargaining or industrial action rights, including the right to strike, cannot be considered a disruption of port services when emergency measures may be taken.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to set a framework that should boost efficiency and strengthen the competitiveness of maritime ports in the trans-european transport network. members of the european parliament agreed to delete the liberalisation of port services and instead to preserve the various organisation models in the european union, while allowing authorities or port managing bodies to set minimum requirements for performing port services or limiting the number of service providers; parliament also approved financial transparency provisions that would ensure fair competition and prevent price abuse, in particular when services are not subject to effective competition. parliament’s position is closely aligned with that of the council. this report provides also that social and labour rules would not be affected by the regulation. for these reasons i voted in favour of this parliamentary report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution and to support the mandate to open negotiations with the council and the commission in the committee on transport and tourism. this proposal aims to modernise port services and attract investment in europe’s ports and this text will facilitate progress in the negotiations with the other institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, which clarifies the scope and aim of the regulation, setting a framework that should boost the efficiency and strengthen the competitiveness of maritime ports in the trans-european transport network. it also takes into account the specific situation of ports located in outermost regions. the report provides that social and labour rules would not be affected by the regulation and that port workers should receive adequate training about their working conditions. it also invites the eu-level sectoral social dialogue committee for ports to develop guidelines regarding training requirements to prevent accidents and ensure the highest level of safety and health for port workers. furthermore, the report secures the right to strike, stating that industrial action does not constitute grounds for taking emergency measures (such as direct awards).
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the establishment of a common legal framework for the production of harmonised indices by member states. this will involve collecting, compiling, processing and submitting of harmonised consumer price indices (hicps) which will allow us to measure inflation in a harmonised way across the eu. the indices are also to be collected in a more simplified manner. this should allow us to measure convergence more effectively. the report also underlines the need for common definitions of different terms in order to avoid their broad and differing interpretations.
in writing. ‒ it is of cross-border benefit, that indices of consumer prices are harmonised across member states. this will also help with quality statistics and their comparability towards a public good of fundamental importance for all european union citizens, researchers and those responsible for public policy in the eu. by improving the relevance and comparability of the hicp as well as by monitoring a broader set of supplementary indicators, further developments in favour of european consumers can be registered.
in writing. ‒ the framework for providing harmonised indices of consumer prices is fundamental to the european union’s economic governance. the current framework is outdated, and therefore the commission’s proposal seeks to modernise the framework into a single new regulation. the harmonisation of the eu’s inflation measures is an important tool in order to have an effective monitoring mechanism on the impact that the european central bank’s monetary policy has, as well as to ensure the correct implementation of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that streamlining would result in a clarified framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the current regulation that has been in place since 1995 needs to be updated to reflect the developments in consumer prices statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because just like its author, i am concerned about the continuously high number of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities, particularly in public procurement, all of which have a negative impact on our economy. the report lays out a number of measures which could help address this problem, for example on better detection and reporting of the irregularities, better controls and harmonisation of methods used for calculating the error rates. most importantly, the commission needs to make full use of its powers regarding vat fraud and work closely with the member states on the subject. the european investment bank, on the other hand, should strengthen its transparency and governance.
in writing. ‒ the eu institutions are continuously trying to ensure that fraudulent use of eu funds is wiped out. full transparency through collecting appropriate, comparable and accurate data as well as establishing uniform reporting principles are important tools. often non-fraudulent irregularities occur due to insufficient knowledge of complex rules and heavy bureaucratic procedures. simplification of rules and procedures may also help reduce irregularities.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud is fundamental if we want to ensure the sound management of european union funds. the report published annually by the commission outlines that in 2014, the eu member states reported 1 649 fraudulent irregularities which involved eur 538 million of eu funds. there was an increase in fraudulent irregularities on the revenue side; however, there was a decrease on the expenditure side, with the commission interrupting 193 payments in the cohesion policy and rural development areas. this report urges the commission to maintain its strict policy on interrupting and suspending payments in accordance with the relevant legal basis, as well as harmonising the methodology for calculating error rates at eu and member state level, which would lead to enhanced cooperation among eu institutions. we need to have a clear and fair picture of the main challenges that exist when protecting the financial interests of the eu and for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union and its member states must do their utmost to tackle fraud, corruption and practices that breach good governance rules and jeopardise our collective economic recovery. the report calls for better reporting, better controls and adherence to public procurement rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this new legislation will improve the quality of indices of consumer prices which are important to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
in writing. ‒ in support of international women’s day and my personal belief in equal representation of men and women in both the european and national parliaments, i voted in favour of this report. i strongly encourage all committees in the european parliament to integrate the gender perspective in their activities. i believe that gender balance is needed in all forms of employment, but particularly in managerial positions. although many domains of life are currently dominated by men, women also have a lot to contribute and their perspective could be invaluable in particularly in business, science and politics.
in writing. ‒ it is worthless speaking of gender equality without then ensuring compliance with a gender mainstreaming policy. this will entail a critical review and analysis of all the work of the european parliament vis-à-vis gender equality standards. it will require a strong strategic engagement that will affect every aspect of eu policy, from preparation to spending programmes. its implementation will require a strong assurance that each action or measure takes into consideration its effects on women and men.
in writing. ‒ assessing the different implications of any planned policy action and legislation for both women and men is an important tool to ensure effective decision-making. parliament adopted a resolution on gender mainstreaming in 2003. this resolution outlines the need for gender mainstreaming amendments and the different aspects that should be considered. enhanced cooperation is needed between the institutions, in order to integrate gender equality at all levels and into all stages of policymaking. i voted in favour of this report, as i strongly believe that tools such as gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting as well as key decision-making issues at political and administrative level will help us induce further gender perspective in all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is important for parliament’s policies and programmes to be pluralistic and include a gender perspective when they are being drafted, implemented and monitored.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament, which calls on the parliament, its institutional partners and ngos to closely work together with a view to making gender mainstreaming a continuous process, and integrate gender equality at all levels, in all areas and into all stages of policymaking, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the need for the rights of female refugees to be addressed, but i was unable to vote in favour of this report because of the unacceptable references to abortion. i do not believe in extreme liberalisation of reproductive rights and i will never accept legalisation of abortion. nobody should be punished by death for the actions of others and no arguments can justify the killing of innocent, unborn children.
in writing. ‒ i agree with several aspects brought forward in this report, in particular the call for asylum seekers to be provided in due time with all the relevant information, including all specific services available to women applying for asylum, as this leads to informed decisions. i strongly support the statement that, despite the challenges member states face in dealing with the migration flow, women migrants are exposed throughout the perilous journey to threats which are different to those of men, and that this requires different services to be provided to them.
in writing. ‒ women and children accounted for around 35% of all refugees in the eu until 2015. in january alone the percentage rose to 55%. most of these women asylum seekers and refugees in the eu face an exceptionally challenging situation which needs to be highlighted. sometimes the situation for them gets worse once they arrive at certain reception centres where they end up as victims of sexual violence, trafficking or violent crimes. i voted in favour of this report where it called for gender sensitive asylum procedures and measures. i voted against all amendments relating to access to abortion and sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this resolution as despite many positive elements, the final version of the text included unacceptable references to the right and access to sexual and reproductive health services and the right to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu because it stresses the vulnerable situation of women asylum seekers and refugees in the european union. in 2015, about one million people crossed mediterranean. women and children accounted for around 35% of refugees. in january 2016, women accounted for 55%. they have fled persecution in their home countries only to undertake a perilous journey in order to reach a place of safety. however, i voted against the paragraphs calling on member states to implement measures on abortion, sexual and reproductive rights. the eu has no competences on abortion policy at national level and, therefore, cannot interfere in member states’ policies in this area, which we should fully respect.
madam president, let me start by thanking the commission for its consistent and clear commitment in trying to find a way forward to manage this crisis and to examine the tools we have at a european level in order to do so in the best possible way. i will focus on schengen. our celebrated schengen zone has become a cornerstone of modern-day europe. we must do what we can to ensure that it remains so. but at the same time, we must understand that the only reason that we do not have internal borders in europe is because our citizens were promised that our external borders would be more secure and that sharing of information would be improved. one simply cannot happen without the other. schengen is crucial in terms of europe’s overall security, but it is also economically and politically necessary. we have seen that the cost of reintroducing border controls would be eur 5-18 billion every single year. so we need to do much more to ensure our external borders are secure and that security standards remain high. in this respect, the proposal for a european border and coast guard is an essential part of the picture. we need to ensure that we do this quickly while looking at all the sovereignty implications. we also need to ensure that the commitments and the eu-turkey joint action plan are implemented and how this can be squared together with what was agreed last night. every member state must follow its obligations at the external borders, and this is true also for greece. we all appreciate the difficulties that greece in particular is going through, and therefore it is essential that solidarity and mutual trust between member states is the principle upon which action in this area is based. i will conclude by saying our citizens demand action from europe. it is no longer about finding emergency responses to emergency situations. we need to move past a piecemeal approach. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for this question. i am currently working on a report, which i hope will be adopted in plenary next month, that precisely identifies a division of this institution that can finally, after many years of discussion, particularly in other institutions, help us accept that migration and its challenges are something that have to be shared by all of the european union and all of its 28 member states. any solution requires a proportional sharing of responsibility by everybody.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, i will make just a few comments on what i have heard. first of all, i fail to understand how anyone can say that doing something for smes is neo-liberal policy. i just do not understand it. if we can help smes across the european union so that people who run small businesses can run their business instead of being engaged in endless hours of administration, they can hire extra people – how is that neoliberal? if we are to create more jobs in this european union, we will have to start with smes. that is the best bet we have and this programme, this agreement, gives us extra concentration on what it means for smes. why? because they cannot defend themselves as well as big corporations can in the brussels bubble. that is why i strongly believe we should concentrate on helping smes be better at what they do. my second point is this: mr durand of the greens got terribly excited – i was a bit afraid he might do himself some harm – but he was angry because we were lowering social standards and lowering environmental standards. i have challenged his group time and again to give me three examples of where this commission has come up with proposals that led to lower social or environmental standards. two would be fine. even one. nothing. so before he gets terribly excited he should perhaps talk to other members of his group so that we know what we are talking about. finally, let me repeat very clearly that to me this is the beginning of a process. the way we implement this will show whether we really are capable of better law-making or not. it is not just about having less regulation at european level. it is also, in a rational way – a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable way – about removing too much red tape because there are 28 different regulations, and trying to find a common european solution. that also is better regulation. so i am proud of the fact that we have got this agreement. i will repeat once again that i would have loved to go beyond what we have achieved, but still this represents the consensus between three institutions and different political angles to this. i believe it is the basis for truly better regulation, completely controlled by the outside world, because we are going to be much more transparent, engaging others much more. especially by using the expertise in the refit platform, we will be able to create momentum so that in future our smes in particular will not be overburdened by unnecessary regulation.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, many members have spoken about the importance of the impact assessments and yes, i am convinced that the impact assessment will strengthen the decision-making process in the council and the european parliament. i am also convinced that new impact assessments will allow the institutions to better assess the implication of legislation at a very early stage. it is important to note, though, that impact assessments will not or should not limit the roles of the co-legislators, whether in parliament or in the council. it will and should only serve as a very helpful tool so yes, i agree very much with you, mr howitt, on impact assessments. these are advisory because ultimately it is us, the co-legislators, who will take a political decision. but clearly, the better the impact assessment is, the more informed the political decision will be. mr pieper mentioned the issue of gold-plating. the current text in my view is clear and reflects the roles and responsibilities of the institutions and the member states in a process of implementation and transposition of union legislation. it is important that we all have a very clear picture about what aspects of national legislation are of a european nature and what aspects are the result of national considerations. it is clearly indicated in the agreement. with the current wording we were able to listen to the wishes of the european parliament and the positions held by national parliaments with their specific role in the implementation process. i know that mr pieper wanted to go further when it comes to gold-plating, i understand, but i do hope that he will accept that a glass half-full, as the first vice-president said, can still be enjoyable to drink. ms adinolfi and several others mentioned the importance of increased transparency. i stressed this as well earlier, and i would like to stress again that under the netherlands presidency we will also make a start with two important provisions in the agreement: the register for delegated acts and the database on the state of play of legislative files. i do hope that the european parliament and the commission will undertake similar steps thereby making it possible to strengthen transparency of the union as a whole. on the smes i think the first vice-president of the european commission was very clear about that and yes, i do agree with mrs vicky ford. she is right: we need to deliver on our promises, and i am convinced that we will act accordingly. before closing, let me take the opportunity to thank the chief negotiators, guy verhofstadt and first vice-president frans timmermans and minister nicolas schmit for reaching this agreement, and i also wish to thank the rapporteur, ms hubner, and her colleagues in the afco committee for their hard work. i look forward to cooperating closely with parliament and the commission on the agreement.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is with pleasure that i present to you, the european parliament, the commission proposal for a targeted amendment of the posting of workers directive that the college adopted here in strasbourg this afternoon. i can tell you that the ink on the proposal is, almost literally, not dry yet. free movement for workers and the free provision of services are two of the four fundamental freedoms of our internal market. since i took office, i have hardly ever heard these fundamental freedoms questioned, but i have often heard concerns on four specific aspects: first the impact of mobility on sending and receiving countries; second, the actual enforcement of existing rules; third, specific imbalances perceived as unfair; and, fourth, the need to ensure a level playing field within the single market. i am deeply convinced that we should not ignore these concerns, but address them. what should be the key building blocks of our response? first, our response should not be to shy away from labour mobility. we must promote the values of free movement that the european union stands for and underline the medium and long-term benefits for our citizens, labour markets and our societies. second, we need rules that are clear, fair and enforced on the ground. this is not always the case today. there is room for improvement. in my opinion, we now have four instruments in place that already offer national authorities more and better tools to make sure that free movement is fair and well managed. we have eures, we have the platform to fight undeclared work, we have the enforcement directive on free movement of workers, and we have the enforcement directive on posting of workers. all these four instruments should be implemented swiftly. my services are providing active assistance to member states but, once the transposition deadlines for the directives have expired in june, the commission will also not hesitate to take enforcement measures if needed. a fair european labour market will only exist if the measures that we have adopted are also implemented. implementing the rules we have in place is, of course, one part of the answer. going further, we also need to improve, update and strengthen rules where needed. with this objective in mind, we finalised the preparation of a labour mobility package at the end of last year but, as you know, we decided to postpone its adoption until after the european council where the uk issue was to be settled in order to avoid any interference with ongoing political discussions. with the uk deal on the table now, it is clear that we cannot proceed with our proposal to amend the social security coordination rules in europe until we know the outcome of the uk referendum, but there is another aspect of fair labour mobility, posting, on which we could proceed. the commission has today adopted the legislative proposal that we announced in our work programme 2016. i want to be very clear about my political view. we need more posting in europe, not less. there are now about 1.9 million postings per year, a steep increase but still less than 1% of our workforce. there is potential for more and the commission will continue to push for removing barriers to cross-border service provision, as stated in our internal market strategy. but, whilst pushing for more cross-border service provision and for more posting, we should also make sure that the system is organised in a fair way – fair for workers and fair for businesses. much has been said and written about the articulation between internal market rules and social rules in europe. for some, market rules should prevail and for others, social protection, but the truth is that the essence of the european social model is that both can and should go hand in hand. that was the core objective of the 1996 posting of workers directive and it remains the objective now: to promote cross-border services, whilst guaranteeing worker protection and a level playing field between local and cross-border service providers. in the 20 years that have passed since the adoption of the 1996 directive, the european labour market has of course changed. with 28 member states the divergences in wage levels and wage systems between member states have significantly increased. instead of convergence we see more divergence, and this has an impact on posting. the gap in minimum wages has increased from a 1:3 ratio in 1996 to a 1:10 ratio today. the differences in the constituent elements of remuneration in each country have also increased. is a worker entitled to a 13th-month bonus, a christmas premium, bad weather or travelling time compensation? the current posting rules do not provide a clear answer to this and this gives rise to uncertainty and disputes on a daily basis. that is bad for the posted workers, who may find it difficult to have their rights respected. it is also bad for posting firms as it increases transaction costs, and some even give up on the idea of posting because it is simply too complicated. in a highly competitive internal market, competition is based on quality, productivity and innovation. labour costs are only one element, but competition based solely on wages is not in the interest of workers or business, nor of the competitiveness of europe in a globalised economy. whilst the construction sector still accounts for around 43% of postings, postings have spread to other sectors as well. journalists, bankers, health care providers and others are posted today. they too should be protected, which under the current directive is not always guaranteed. finally, we see growing trends of outsourcing and sub-contracting in the labour market. while sub-contracting continues to make a lot of sense when it gives access to more specialised skills and more efficiency, it creates unfairness and market distortions when sub-contracting firms are not subject to the same rules on remuneration. when undercutting local wage norms is the main reason for outsourcing, it leads to unfairness, segmentation of the labour market and downward, instead of upward, convergence. that is not the internal market we want and it is not the internal market we promised our citizens. it is clear that we need a targeted revision of the 1996 posting directive to address those issues and to update the rules to today’s context. i know many of you recall the difficult discussions on the enforcement directive. i remember those as well, as a member of this parliament at that time, but i sincerely believe that, this time too, we can come to an agreement. since my first day in office, i have listened very carefully to representatives of various political groups, member states and stakeholders, and i have noted the following requests in particular: better protection for posted workers, a level playing field between domestic and cross-border service providers, the need for more transparency and more legal certainty, respect for the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination, and also of course respect for the subsidiarity principle and for national wage-setting systems. the proposal that the commission adopted today addresses those concerns in a balanced way. we propose targeted adjustments to the provisions on remuneration, building on recent judgments of the court of justice, and with full respect for specificities and national circumstances. it will no longer be the minimum rate of pay only, but all provisions on remuneration in the host country that will apply to posting. we will align the directive with the rules on social security so that both for social security purposes and for labour law purposes workers posted for longer than 24 months will be considered as integrated in the labour market of the host country, and we will better align the posting of workers directive with the directive on temporary agency work: rules applicable to local workers must be applied to posted workers as well. i hope you will study our proposal – the official one, not the unofficial ones which i have seen commented on in the press in recent days. i hope you will study our proposal with an open mind and with a constructive approach. as you know, i am ready to come back to parliament and discuss it at any time. the commission will continue to work constructively with the co-legislators and, of course, also with parliament, with pleasure and with the aim of coming to a good agreement.
i would like to start this speech by thanking commissioner marianne thyssen because i think i have to thank her for the courage she had to start a discussion again on this directive, that it was not a perfect directive and of course we had aspects even we as the people's party that we thought needed to be fixed. now of course, such an important directive will find controversy and not everyone will agree with you. i too had a long discussion within my party and it was not easy for the european people's party to reach the consensus we have today on this new proposal that the commissioner is bringing before us. of course my appeal here today is now to all the other political groups. i think we cannot be populist at the moment. together, this parliament needs to send a message that we are united, that we must find a compromise; and i promise this house that, together with the rapporteur i will have in a few days, i will do my utmost to work together with every rapporteur and coordinator of all the political groups to find this compromise; because here we have a basis for finding this compromise, and if we find a basis for compromise in this parliament we will be sending a strong message to the council; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. other i honestly didn't quite understand what my friend from the s&d group was trying to say; but what i was trying to say is that, of course, not everyone gets everything they want. i think that, on this arrangement that the commissioner has arrived at, we need to have a 'give and take situation'. i need to find a compromise about not just how i'm going to win, but how i'm going to give a piece of me so that we both win. this is the moment, in this parliament, to find a compromise because if we are populist, everyone will lose: we, the commission, the council and, ultimately, the workers who need to see us agree in order to safeguard their rights.
mr president, in response to what mr aker has just said with regard to my colleague declining to take his blue card question, i think that every member has a right not to accept a blue card, and he should not have called her a chicken. i am sorry, but these words should not be used and cannot be used in this plenary.
member of the commission.– mr president, since its first day in office, a key goal of this commission has been to create a europe worthy of a social triple—a rating. for me there is no doubt that it is an ambition – indeed, a commitment – that the economic strengthening of our union goes hand in hand with improving people’s lives. this is the core of the european social model and a vital component of our social market economy. in my view, a triple—a social europe requires fair and balanced growth that leads to the creation of decent quality jobs, as well as chances and protection for all throughout their life cycle. the commission has put fairness at the core of our agenda and i am convinced that it is only by ensuring that social considerations are better integrated in all european policy areas that we will truly achieve a social europe. the commission has already taken concrete steps to make sure europe deserves a triple—a rating. within the european semester we have deepened the analysis of employment and social performance and we have strengthened the role of social partners at european and national level. we have done a social impact assessment in parallel with the negotiations of the new support programme for greece. we have proposed a recommendation to the member states on the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market, which was adopted in february. we proposed – and the parliament and the council quickly accepted – to increase the pre-finance for the youth employment initiative from one percent to 30 percent, which represented an advance payment of around eur 1 billion. this has allowed for the projects under the youth employment initiative to really take off. we adopted the proposal for the accessibility act, which will give persons with disabilities more opportunities and choices in their everyday life. the newly established european platform against undeclared work will help to combat undeclared work throughout the union and contribute to better working conditions in the eu. a new eures regulation will make it easier for jobseekers to expand their job search into other member states and will facilitate free movement of workers. in addition, we have just adopted today a proposal for the revision of the posting of workers directive, which we discussed earlier, and there is some work underway for 2016. we foresee a fresh start to promote work—life balance for working parents, both men and women. we are also preparing a european skills agenda to be launched during the spring and, moreover, a comprehensive evaluation of the 24 occupational health and safety directives is ongoing. i intend to come forward with a proposal on carcinogens before the summer. in parallel with these concrete initiatives, we today launched a broad consultation on a first concrete outline of the european pillar of social rights. president juncker announced this initiative in his state of the union address in september last year and the consultation will collect stakeholders’ views, including national parliaments’ and, of course, the european parliament’s. i invite all of you to participate in the debate and also to come with the position of the parliament if possible. we invite social partners at european and national level and civil society to participate in this debate. why a pillar of social rights? well, the european social model is a success story. the european union is today the largest economy in the world and most of its citizens enjoy very high living standards. european values have materialised over time in a whole set of social rights, which are enshrined in national and european law as well as fundamental rights. however, we need to assess whether the european social model is still fit for purpose. we are confronted with long-term challenges and we are also still confronted with the aftermath of the crisis. i would say that it is time for a reality check. are our european union and our member states’ policies on social affairs, in the broad sense of the word, still up to date? are they future-proofed for the 21st century? those are the questions. this is particularly important for the euro area because we know that more convergence, including on social and labour market policy is essential for more resilience and for better stability of economic and monetary union. this is why the pillar of social rights will, in the first instance, be there for the member states of the euro area. but of course other member states are welcome to join if they so wish. i am convinced that this double track is the right way to advance for a social triple—a: to take concrete initiatives that address people’s concerns and have a real impact on the ground – we have already launched more than ten – and, secondly, to initiate a joint reflection on how we want our european social model to develop in the 21st century so that it continues to work for people to deliver growth and opportunities for all. i cannot encourage you more to participate in this big debate. i think you really have something to say there and i looking forward to continuing that debate too.
on behalf of the ppe group. we welcome initiatives that can contribute to the well-being of our citizens. i believe that this concept can certainly be developed. the treaty already provides for the fact that the european union has the right to complement and assist, inter alia, member states in the field of the protection and health of workers, their working conditions, social security and social protection. however, for this exercise to succeed, close collaboration with the member countries and their regions is required. this is coupled with clear definitions and objectives. it is worth recalling that european cohesion policy is imperative for homogeneous and constructive growth, as well as for positive social convergence. i understand that globalisation and the economic crisis have had an impact on our society. we cannot repeat past mistakes and put the social well-being of our citizens at risk. protecting our citizens is a key duty for us. and so i ask the commission and the member states to put our social indicators at the forefront of the political agenda of the european union and to use these social indicators as a mechanism to take appropriate and timely action.
as my colleagues said, it was not an easy process but after many meetings and tough negotiations it is good that we have come this far. the directive is needed with safeguard measures for children who are accused or suspected of having committed a crime. this is a very sensitive case and we must do everything necessary to protect the children in our societies. in this sense i welcome the right of children to information because it is a guarantee that children are informed about their rights. it is important that children are not left out. we want a legal system that takes account of the interests of these children. each member state of the european union shall ensure that children are, where necessary, provided with legal assistance. another good initiative to be commended is the recording of children being questioned during interrogation. i insist that children should be treated as children, and therefore it is positive that they are given all the protection they need. these initiatives are a testament to european values. a europe built on rights. that is why we should give it our full support.
mr president, my hope and wish is that the heads of an agreement reached by the european council in turkey will develop into a fully-operative agreement because i have not seen any better deal yet. however, beyond wishes one must also acknowledge realities. turkey and the eu have different, asymmetric, and sometimes mutually—exclusive interests regarding the relationship between them over the refugee crisis and regarding the civil war in syria. this reality is being fudged through ambiguities, which is dangerous. ambiguities become acute at the wrong moment in time and lead to collapse. the eu wants to control the flow of refugees to europe and is prepared to provide funds for this to happen. it is in turkey’s interest for refugees to leave. turkey wants to see serious progress with its membership application to join the eu, yet a majority in the eu is against turkish membership. i find myself in the minority on this one. meanwhile, the eu has been critical of turkey’s efforts to contain kurdish separatism and of the growing authoritarianism of its government. the eu is divided; turkey presents a united front. tough as it is, perhaps eventually the best approach would be to call a spade a spade and to define a way forward that recognises the differences between the two sides.
in writing.– it seems to me that the deal discussed during the eu-turkey summit results from a sudden change of heart by germany. though germany is not openly mentioning any limits to the number of refugees it wants to host, reality is showing that some form of limit does exist. this change of heart is translating into a pushback of migrants to the eu’s external borders and shifting the burden back to border member states. the flow of migrants passing from turkey to greece shows no sign of abating and if the numbers remain unmanageable there is little hope that the eu would be able to deal with the situation in a pragmatic manner. in my opinion, the eu-turkey deal should not take the form of a trade-off. however, as things stand today, the agreement seems to be exactly that. the eu must be vigilant for any human rights violations and not turn a blind eye to what happens. human rights safeguards should be ensured when turkey deals with migrants. the eu-turkey deal must not be considered an end in itself, and the eu needs to continue expanding its efforts in the field of migration and asylum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because all the amendments to the council directive 1999/32/ec should be brought together into one single act which will make the legislation more orderly. there is no change in substance and the aim still remains to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide and their damaging impact on human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ it is our responsibility to regulate against emissions due to the combustion of marine fuels with a high sulphur content. this is realised in air and contributes to air pollution in the form of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which harms our health and the environment, and contributes to acid deposition. air pollution caused by ships at berth is a major concern for many harbour cities when it comes to their efforts to meet the union’s air quality limit values. passenger ships operate mostly in ports or close to coastal areas and their impacts on human health and the environment are significant. it is worth noting that in accordance with existing guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, and without prejudice to future changes thereto, member states may provide state aid in favour of operators affected by this directive, including aid for retrofitting operations of existing vessels, if such aid measures are deemed to be compatible with the internal market obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is a straightforward codification of the existing texts on codifying council directive 1999/32/ec of 26 april 1999 relating to a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels and amending directive 93/12/eec without any change in their substance. changes include a change in the numbering of recitals and articles, and slight wording changes to article 2(g) and article 20 of the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it concerns the codification texts regarding pollution and emissions from shipping-related activities in the form of sulphur dioxide, which harms health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the codification of the report on the reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels because i am in agreement with the codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003, that is, bring together all the amendments that have been made to it over the years in order to make it clearer and more transparent. no change should be made to the substance of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it contains a straightforward codification of council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to avoid trade diversion into the european union of certain key medicines without any change in the substance. as this is an already—existing text, and has already been approved by the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission as stipulated in the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it concerns the codification texts regarding blocking the importing of tiered-price medicine into the union, as well as encouraging pharmaceutical companies to make drugs available at heavily reduced prices to the poorest developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the codification of the report on the trade diversion into the european union of certain key medicines because i am in agreement with the codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance
in writing. ‒ i approve the conclusion of the amending protocol to the eu agreement with the principality of andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the measures outlined are equivalent to those in the already-existing council directive (2003/48/ec) and will improve international tax cooperation and compliance. most of all, the agreement aims to eliminate tax avoidance. i welcome the agreement with andorra because we need to cooperate with as many countries as possible in order to tackle such problems more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for andorra to comply with the procedures for automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. this will be of reciprocal benefit. on the basis of this new agreement our european tax administrations and those in andorra will be able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, enforce our tax laws in cross-border situations and avoid unnecessary financial investigations
in writing. ‒ the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries needs to be addressed and ensured by the introduction and proper implementation of solid agreements. the agreement between the european union and andorra signed on 12 february 2016, stipulates the automatic exchange of financial account information and represents an important step to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report, as it aims to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital or assets for which taxes have not been paid. this introduces further transparency and compliance between the european union and andorra.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement, which aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the automatic exchange of financial account information will help the efforts to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information because it is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because of his relevant experience and the high level of managerial and leadership skills. he was very convincing at the hearing of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in february and it is certain that eiopa will continue to function well under his direction.
in writing. ‒ eiopa’s core responsibilities are to support the stability of the financial system, the transparency of markets and financial products as well as the protection of policyholders, pension scheme members and beneficiaries. i take on board the final decision of the board of supervisors of the eiopa, following an open selection procedure, which proposed to appoint fausto parente as executive director for a term of office of five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term as the term of office of eiopa’s current executive director ends on 31 march 2016 and a new one must be appointed. therefore, the board of supervisors of the eiopa has proposed that fausto parente be appointed as the following executive director for a subsequent five years in office. this proposal resulted from an open selection procedure, and the nominee was also previously backed by parliament’s own committee on economic and monetary affairs, which held a hearing with mr parente at which he was extensively questioned by members of the committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i support the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of the eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we should give special attention to children who are involved in criminal proceedings and the proposal outlines such safeguards. the situation in the eu is still unsatisfactory. for example, nine member states still do not have juvenile courts. common minimum standards and the right to a fair trial need to be ensured. we must remember that minors need to be treated fairly and in a manner appropriate to their age and that all kinds of discrimination and mistreatment must be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in the hope that member states are encouraged to bring about awareness on the matter and provide children involved in criminal proceedings with appropriate support. children are persons with their own rights; rights that are equal to those of adults. it is imperative that children who are involved in criminal proceedings are treated in a manner and pass through a process that is adequate and proper to their age and their vulnerability. furthermore, children also need to have procedures leading to their being charged or accused that also fully respect their vulnerability and their age maturity. procedural safeguards for children should therefore not be restricted to court procedures but should exist in all the different stages of the criminal justice system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as because it amends slightly the commission’s most recent proposal on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings as part of its november 2013 package of proposals to further strengthen procedural safeguards for citizens in criminal proceedings. the modifications to the commission’s legislative proposal in the first reading of the agreement for a directive strengthen the proposal and broaden the scope of the directive, including key aspects which will ensure that rights of children and the best interest of the child. one such key aspect is the proposal to ensure that children suspected of criminal acts always have a lawyer present to assist them and thus this will be an automatic right granted to children without any request for legal aid. another such safeguard introduced by parliament’s rapporteur is the proposal that member states ensure that children are informed promptly both in writing and orally about the charges against them, the conduct of the proceedings and their rights in a way which is understandable and appropriate to their age, language capabilities and intellectual ability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important to protect minors and with this resolution, the interest of minors accused will be ensured and protected at every stage of criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings because it will help to properly protect child suspects’ safety in criminal proceedings across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the report is a good basis for the 2017 budget. boosting investment which will result in job creation, growth and greater competitiveness should continue to be our priority, but we also need to focus on how best we can use our budget to address the challenges related to migration and the refugee crisis. i agree that a compulsory review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is greatly needed and needs to be followed by a legislative proposal. lastly, i deeply regret that corporate tax avoidance has caused such enormous losses in income for the member states and their subsequent contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ with the european union facing an economic crisis, the budget for 2017 needs to speed up the slow economic recovery through increased investment. further investment needs to be allocated for long-term problems such as youth unemployment and moreover we need to continue investing in order to induce economic development. the migration and refugee crisis in the european union needs further attention. we need to ensure solidarity among member states in order to ensure further investment to complement the collective efforts being implemented in this regard. i voted in favour of these guidelines, as we need to prepare and organise all the means available in addressing the above-mentioned issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. some of the most important elements of the 2017 budget include: increasing investments for growth, creating jobs and increasing competitiveness, as well as addressing the on-going challenges of the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the guidelines for the 2017 budget – section iii because it is important to mobilise all means available in order to address crises, such as refugees and migration, the economic crisis, poverty, etc.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this report was conditioned by its acceptance that the regional socioeconomic cleavage in the eu continues to increase especially vis-à-vis the european union’s southern periphery. the report also acknowledges that the economic crisis of past years has dramatically reduced the manoeuvring ability of the different national and regional budgets of poorer member states. as a result an ever increasing deficit has emerged in the eu’s goal of socioeconomic convergence. this can only be overcome by financial measures specifically targeted at countering the particular problems that characterise peripheral and/or isolated conditions. i welcome the emphasis placed on the point that one-size-fits-all calculations based on gdp are not always necessarily the best indicators when it comes to calculating european union budget commitments through its funding tools. this is especially the case when dedicating funding for isolated and/or peripheral regions as well as islands. because of transport difficulties and costs, plus diseconomies of scale when holding stocks of consumer goods or components of production systems, higher transactional costs and longer delays are incurred when funding or managing projects. for this, no compensation is possible under current rules, except on an ad hoc basis.
in writing. ‒ in general, i welcome the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation which should provide foundations for better cooperation between the institutions, especially in that it covers some very important areas, namely better regulation, interinstitutional relations, and the legislative process. the draft is rather satisfactory but i would like to see greater importance being attached to the impact assessments for small and medium enterprises. the needs of smes need to be taken into account at all stages of policy making as they are a crucial part of our economy.
in writing. ‒ laws should address actual realities without making regulation burdensome on stakeholders. overregulation, and laws that increase administrative burdens, greatly affect citizens and businesses, especially smes. tools such as impact assessment, consultation processes and respect for principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are important for better law-making.
in writing. ‒ the new interinstitutional agreement recognises the need for a renewed commitment on the part of all three institutions involved in the legislative process (parliament, council and commission) in order for better lawmaking efforts to be successful. this agreement outlines the phases of the policy cycle, including provisions such as better lawmaking tools, transparency, and implementation and simplification. i positively believe that the common commitment to promote simplicity, clarity and consistency outlined in this agreement is a positive step forward in ensuring better law-making. i voted in favour of this agreement as it will facilitate and allow a better and simplified application of eu law, including more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement because, since the treaty of lisbon has created a new legislative environment, there is a need to consolidate current best practices between the european parliament, the council of the european union, and the commission, and bring this agreement up to date.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report for the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making because it will allow for better application of eu law, respecting agreements with social partners and more transparency, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution as i believe that tobacco agreements with a particular company or any other tobacco manufacturers should not be renewed. instead, the commission should focus on ways to address the problem of illegal trade, counterfeiting and tax evasion in this area and on ratification of the who fctc protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products which would benefit our citizens to a far greater extent.
in writing. ‒ it is our obligation to intensify the fight against fraud and cigarette smuggling which contributes to the funding of other international organised criminal activities, including terrorism, and human, drugs and arms trafficking. tobacco fraud is also a public-health concern, which poses an even greater health risk than genuine cigarettes. progress registered should be sustained with further measures towards the continuous need to fight illicit trade, counterfeiting and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s agreement with the tobacco manufacturer, philip morris international (pmi), was concluded in 2004 for a period of 12 years and its main aim was to tackle illicit tobacco trade. although this core objective of the agreement has been met effectively, the reduction in pmi contraband products has not led to an overall reduction in the number of illicit products on the eu market. since the agreement was concluded, there have been significant changes to the market environment (the rise of illicit unbranded products – ‘cheap whites’ – which cannot be dealt with by this agreement) and the regulatory environment, with the tobacco products directive and the who framework convention on tobacco control protocol. therefore, the added value to have such an agreement with pmi is questionable, and i voted against its renewal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as the commission will propose a revised tobacco products directive over the coming year.
in writing. ‒ i am against the extension of an agreement with philip morris that was designed to help tackle smuggling and fraud of branded cigarettes. the agreement with philip morris was innovative and a useful tool in the fight against the smuggling of cigarettes when it was first introduced. however, this agreement has run its course and i have opposed its renewal or extension. changes in the market and regulatory environment mean that the agreement is no longer the best tool to fight bootlegging or smuggling of tobacco products.
in writing.– on 1 february 2016 the world health organisation declared the zika virus outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern. i hope that we have learnt our lesson from the recent ebola outbreak and that our experience of the past epidemics, and the structures we already have in place stand us in good stead to make an effective and swift response to developments. i welcome the eu funding of eur 10 million to examine the potential link of the zika virus with the epidemic of congenital brain malformations and other neurological complications observed across latin america and french polynesia. at the moment, the ‘risk of transmission of the zika virus infection is extremely low in the eu’ since during the winter season the climatic conditions are not suitable for the mosquito which carries the virus. however, we are still not aware of the implications and risk of transmission of the zika virus. we should take urgent measures on preparing for the summer climatic conditions and on finding effective vaccines and medicines, both to prevent and to treat zika virus infection.
in writing.– it is important to ensure that the direction towards banking union is maintained. however it is equally important that the impact of changes banking union brings in its wake are tracked in an effective way, and for corrective measures to be taken as necessary and quickly, not when it is too late. it cannot simply be assumed that moves towards banking union will be uniformly beneficial. on the contrary, if seen as ‘one-size-fits-all’ solutions, such changes may not effectively address the different economic and financial realities present in member states. more attention should be paid to the impact of the new rules introduced with the banking union, especially on the changing operating costs of banks and on bank lending propensities, in view of the investment gap that has persisted in the union over the past years. an in-depth study of the impact of the banking union as it is being implemented on bank credit in general and smes in particular, needs to be carried out with the aim of mitigating any negative consequences in this regard. most importantly, we should ensure that the needs of certain member states are not taken into account at the expense of other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia relating to olive oil in the hope that they will help to resolve the difficult current economic situation in tunisia. however, to remain cautious and ensure that eu producers of olive oil remain unaffected by this, the commission should also conduct an assessment of this regulation and introduce corrective measures if necessary.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that the european union must support tunisia since it is facing a politically and economically difficult period. moreover we need a stable tunisia also for the benefit of stability in the mediterranean. the fact is, the economy of tunisia was already facing serious difficulties and the terrorist attacks have led to further problems primarily in the economy. stronger trade relations with the european union would be beneficial for tunisia to be able to revive its economy. with the association agreement, the european union has already taken a positive step forward in assisting tunisia. i am in favour of the autonomous trade measures proposed, as they are a concrete example of eu support and further promote democracy in tunisia and for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that the union sends the message that we are ready to assist tunisia’s economic recovery, tackle the level of unemployment in the country and support the political transition process.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia since the eu has long pledged support to tunisia in its transition to democracy. tunisia has been a success story in the region. however, its economy took a huge hit following the 2015 terrorist attacks. recent months have seen rising levels of unemployment and resulting protests. therefore it is essential that tunisia’s economic and social development continues and therefore it is very important to support these temporary and exceptional measures.
in writing. ‒ this is a very good report that includes excellent amendments to directive 2001/82/ec, for example in relation to access to medicinal products, innovation and environmental protection. however, i believe that this report is not yet mature for agreement and i agree with the need to postpone the final vote in order to fine-tune the details.
in writing. ‒ there is a need for new legislation which should increase the scope for research into and development and monitoring of veterinary medicinal products and which will increase production and profitability on the internal market. there is also a growing need for new and better medicines for use in livestock farming, in view of climate change and the worldwide trend towards greater movement. from the farmers’ point of view, it is of decisive importance that effective and accessible medicines should be available at a reasonable price when they are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation on veterinary medicinal products that will govern the authorisation, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, drug safety and use of veterinary medicinal products over their lifetime. this regulation aims to improve access to medicinal products and make them widely available, to reduce the administrative burden, to promote innovation and competitiveness within the sector, to ensure that the internal market for veterinary medicinal products functions properly, and to tackle antibiotic resistance.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it builds upon the work done by the commission to separate the veterinary medicinal market from the human medicinal market as well reducing the red tape, maintaining the principles of public health and protecting the environment. i also supported the proposed measures to curb antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the veterinary medicinal products in order to have a regulation that provides better access to veterinary medicines, takes measures to fight antimicrobial resistance, reduces the administrative burden, and promotes innovation and competitiveness within the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone the final vote on this report following the postponement of the final vote on the previous report on veterinary medicinal products, which needs slight changes. both reports should be voted on at the same time as they are interlinked.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it takes account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector and aims to decouple the marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products. furthermore, it clarifies and updates the principles applicable to fees payable to the agency and ensures that the fees remain affordable for the veterinary industry in order to promote the development and availability of new medicines in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it concerns amending the regulation on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products to reflect the separation of veterinary medicinal products from human medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal that accompanies the new regulation on veterinary medicine products that will repeal and replace directive 2001/82 /ec, and amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. it must be amended to take account of the fact that centralised marketing authorisation for human and veterinary products is being decoupled so that the new regulation on veterinary medicinal products (com(2014)0558) will cover all routes granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products in the union – both at centralised and national level. in addition, it seeks to align provisions to the lisbon treaty and to introduce implementing acts to set the fee provisions – previously set by co-decision. i strongly believe that the ep must be involved as co-legislator in setting the structure and level of fees payable by industry to the ema.
in writing. ‒ this is an important motion for a resolution as it covers a topic which is relevant across different policy areas. the current technological advances change our world constantly and it is crucial that we adapt our policies to them and use them to our benefit as much as possible. among other benefits, they impact and create opportunities for innovation, science, labour markets and, of course, our private lives. it is crucial that we come up with cohesive policies on related matters such as data protection, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the opportunity for unleashing the potential of cloud computing is an important one for europe. it will not only provide economic growth and jobs, but will also bring about socio-economic progress through the use of big data in research. this does not, however, come about without risks and challenges such as those in the area of privacy and data protection, which also need to be addressed. while tapping into this opportunity, member states will also need to address the current skills mismatch and ensure that education fosters a more entrepreneurial mindset.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this overview of the challenges in the new, data-driven economy. we have to ensure that the framework we create at eu level is legally sound, gives priority to broadband infrastructure investment, consumer protection and new opportunities for smes. in all, data-driven economy has a great potential to stimulate r&d&i on data while leading to more business opportunities and an increased availability of knowledge and capital, in particular for smes across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as it highlights the fact that the creation of a data-driven economy is essential for the success of the digital market strategy. the resolution also demonstrates that the shift towards a data driven economy must happen at every level and is not something that should happen only in the industries commonly associated with the digital sphere, but is something that should occur across the board. it also stresses the importance of data protection and consumer privacy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’ in order to define broadband infrastructure investment, consumer protection, smes’ opportunities, smooth and efficient innovation processes and data protection as priorities in this new data—driven economy.
in writing. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because the ongoing human rights violations in eritrea are worrying and should be put to a halt. likewise, lack of elections, the authoritarian and repressive rule and the non-existent freedom of press are major issues faced by the eritreans. they should be addressed by the government with the help of the international community. in the meantime, i support the allocation of funds to the eritrean people to meet at least some of their needs.
in writing. ‒ human rights is a fundamental basis of the european union, and we must ensure that we use all the tools available to help those in need, in countries like eritrea. the european union must seek to take an important role in addressing such situations of human rights breaching. we need to tackle the reality before us, eritrean refugees are one of the largest groups of asylum seekers arriving in europe. in eritrea, civilians are being regularly detained or arrested for a number of unjustifiable reasons. i voted in favour of this resolution, as it highlights how the eu aid and resources can be best focused to address this situation and bring changes to situations like the one faced by mr dawit isaak, a political prisoner who has been imprisoned without trial in eritrea.
in writing. ‒ i signed and supported this cross-party resolution on the situation in eritrea as it highlights the dire humanitarian situation in the country. it also expressly calls for the commission to ensure that any development aid is not simply sent to the government of the country but reaches the people so as to maximise the potential for positive change in the recipient locality.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in eretria because the human rights situation in the country has long been deteriorating: civilians are regularly arbitrarily detained or arrested for a number of unjustifiable reasons – criticising or opposing the government, practising journalism, practising an unofficial religion, evading or deserting mandatory national service, trying to flee the country or having a relative who has fled. recently a report by the un special rapporteur noted that eritrea has one of the worst human rights records in the world, with no improvement in sight. eritreans fleeing the country now constitute the third largest group of refugees making the perilous journey to europe. the purpose of this resolution is not only to highlight and call for improvements to the appalling human rights situation, but to consider how eu aid and resources can be best focused to address the situation and help bring about change.
in writing. ‒ the prospect of eu membership is a major incentive for further reforms, particularly with regard to the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. unless these are eradicated from the system no further progress can effectively be registered on the basis of the enlargement copenhagen criteria. i welcome the source of hope for a prosperous future for young generations in fyrom and the positive response to europe reflected in the polls induces political dialogue and to pursue efforts to restore public trust in fyrom institutions. i agree with the development of a designated training programme for public administration staff, something which the commission can play a role in providing assistance.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the reform efforts of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the areas that need to be given further attention by implementing the relevant strategies and agreements. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is preparing for parliamentary elections on 5 june 2016. the european commission made recommendations this year which support the beginning of accession talks, ‘conditional’ on the implementation of a 2015 eu-brokered political agreement - the pržino agreement. in light of this, i voted in favour of the european parliament’s 2015 report which recommended, for the first time, that the eu open accession negotiations with macedonia conditional upon the full implementation of the pržino agreement. since this report highlights fundamental issues, such as better gender equality policies amongst others, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that draws attention to the work that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) needs to do to ensure free and fair election procedures and protect media freedom whilst also commending the positive role that it is playing in to foster regional cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it is important to stress that all the political parties make efforts to create the conditions for credible early elections and that an all-party agreement remains essential to fulfil all elements of the pržino agreement. the report includes the most recent developments in the country: it takes note of the vote by the macedonian parliament on 23 february to set a new date to hold early parliamentary elections on 5 june 2016 but regrets that there was no consensus between all parties. the report for the first time makes the recommendation to open accession negotiations conditional upon the full implementation of the june/july political (pržino) agreement and substantial progress on the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. the report reiterates that bilateral issues should not be used to obstruct the eu accession process but should be addressed in a constructive spirit as early as possible in the accession process, taking into account the principles and values of the un and of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the opening of another two negotiation chapters which make montenegro as the most advanced enlargement country in the negotiation process. all depends however on the overall progress in the negotiations, in particular the progress in the implementation of the rule of law. i support the call upon the montenegrin parliament to improve access to accession-related information and welcome the newly adopted code of ethics which will improve public trust in the montenegrin parliament. finally i support the call for effective measures against trafficking in human beings welcoming the 70 arrests for trafficking in human beings towards italy in the wake of investigations carried out by the montenegrin authorities.
in writing. ‒ this report includes an assessment of the progress that montenegro has achieved in the eu integration process negotiations. montenegro achieved a steady progress in the accession negotiations. however, i believe that montenegro needs to address issues related with the fundamental basis of the union such as media freedom and anti-corruption. i voted in favour of this report as it highlights these fundamental issues, such as the enforcement of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the work that needs to be done to tackle corruption in montenegro as well as protecting the freedom of the press in the press and access of all political parties involved in elections to media.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the 2015 report on montenegro, which welcomes the steady progress in the accession negotiations and highlights the further steps to be taken (most importantly in the fields of media freedom, anti-corruption, and the lack of constructive cooperation between government and opposition on eu matters).
in writing. ‒ the banking union plays an important role towards a genuine economic and monetary union which reduces risks of abuse in the european banking system. within such a system, however, we cannot place more obstacles to smes. tools such as the sme supporting factor are important, and initiatives for improved sme and innovation funding should be made more accessible to start-ups and smes.
in writing. ‒ following the financial crisis of 2008, the banking union aims and implements mechanisms to restore confidence in the banking sector. i am in favour of this report, as it welcomes the stability of restoring the confidence in euro area banks as well as taking into account that more needs to be done in order to have a fully functioning banking union. we need to continue working on the implementation of the single resolution mechanism as well the finalisation of the banking union, with the completion of the edis. i positively believe that we need to continue progress towards a safe and resilient financial and banking sector, and it is fundamental to protect our citizens from the failure of banks and financial firms. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report, which is the first annual report on the banking union. the report outlines the three pillars of the banking union: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the third pillar, the protection of deposits. i welcome the conclusions on the state of the banking union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the banking union because it has been one of our key achievements since the financial crisis in 2008 to ensure safe and resilient financial and banking sectors to restore confidence, investment in the real economy and a high level of protection for citizens from the failure of banks and financial firms. i fully supported the first steps: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), operational from november 2014, and the single resolution mechanism (srm) fully operational from the beginning of this year. the third pillar – a common deposit insurance scheme – is unfortunately still missing, and work on a common fiscal backstop to be available as a last resort to support the single resolution fund has not yet started. in the absence of these missing elements, the banking union cannot be considered as completed and therefore able to fulfil its ambition and reduce risk. it should be our priority for the coming year.
while celebrating european diversity, we recognise the values and goals we share and strive to understand them. amid the threat of radicalization directed at these values, it becomes more necessary to facilitate the recognition of these european values and objectives. young people deserve the best opportunity to be part of the european project, to participate and contribute to it. students want an opportunity to make their europe. member states already offer education on 'european affairs' but european values and culture go beyond the study of structures. to give students the best opportunity, we need to equip teachers with the right tools. the eu should therefore contribute more towards 'continuous training' opportunities for teachers, guidelines on educational standards, support networking and dissemination of 'good practices' and provide teachers with 'e-learning platforms' and digital material.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes the report on erasmus+ and other tools to foster mobility in vet – a lifelong learning approach. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maragall, for his work. i fully share the view expressed in the report that the learning and training grants offered by the erasmus+ programme are contributing to high-quality education, improved employability and better civic competences. for many trainees, especially from lower socio-economic backgrounds, their erasmus+ experience is often their first occasion to leave their home countries and step into another reality. mr maragall’s report contains a rich analysis of both the advantages and the challenges of mobility. the advantages are many: when trainees and apprentices go abroad, they acquire new professional competences which contribute to their training at home. moreover, they improve their motivation and self-confidence, their versatility and adaptability and their language, communication and intercultural skills. all of these competences and skills acquired abroad give them an advantage on the labour market. challenges range from reduced access to mobility programmes, the lack of financial resources, linguistic and cultural barriers, poor compatibility with training programmes at home and cumbersome recognition of skills acquired abroad to legal obstacles. the commission is aware of these challenges. i will try to respond to some of them in the little time i have here and now. the commission has already created a logistical and organisational framework which strives to make vet mobility a success for everybody involved. the erasmus+ vet mobility charter, for example, improves the strategic impact of vet mobility on vet organisations. through the charter, the commission rewards high-quality mobility initiatives and internationalisation strategies. it is through the networking of schools that possess the vet mobility charter and their links to their respective local labour markets that better placements can be found and suitable companies located. we also have a good body of intermediaries – such as chambers of commerce, associations or local authorities – which help improve the logistics and the quality of vet mobility. regarding people with special needs, the commission has always considered it a priority to make their participation in the programme possible. additional funds are made available to persons with special needs, which cover their additional expenses during their stay abroad. as for simplified access to the programme, the erasmus+ it tools are constantly being adapted to meet the applicants’ requests, and efforts are being made to simplify application procedures. we have been working with the national agencies managing erasmus+ at the national level to tailor it tools and e—forms to the applicants’ needs and to simplify them. the commission also works closely with the national agencies to ensure maximum visibility of the programme’s vet actions. various promotion events and social media campaigns at national and european level have been organised, such as the ‘we mean business’ campaign that aimed to boost the number of companies getting involved in transnational traineeships. finally, linguistic preparation. knowing the language of your host country is a crucial success factor for training periods abroad, especially for young trainees, whose knowledge of a foreign language can be limited. the programme helps them get over the linguistic hurdle by offering language assessment tools, online language courses and other linguistic and intercultural preparation courses. the european parliament also contributes to improving the quality and quantity of vet mobility. in concrete terms, the pilot projects of both mr maragall and mr arthuis will provide vital funds to overcome obstacles and improve transnational placements for the future. this is in line with our policy priorities to improve work-based learning and help the younger generation to have better chances on the job market. let me conclude by saying that i greatly appreciate the commitment of the european parliament to boosting the quality and quantity of mobility in vocational education and training. the commission is working in the same direction, and i am looking forward to our cooperation on these issues.
in writing.– the underlying negative perception of vet as being an educational pathway of less worth needs to be addressed through a concerted and common approach. we can start by establishing common high standards in european vet to provide learners with training of a good standard and facilitate mobility and recognition of competences amongst diverse national systems. this means that we also need to address the use of vet by national systems as a way to show a decrease in the number of early school leavers by lowering the educational and training component of vet or else pushing learners towards vet from a very young age without ensuring that they gain basic skills. vet is not the stop plug to early school leavers. it is just one of the measures that may entice early school leavers to return to training, but other measures taking place earlier on in a learner´s life are needed. vet represents an important tool for re-skilling, widening and upgrading skills within a lifelong learning programme that can facilitate employment.
rapporteur.– mr president, if one thing is clear, it is that there is no quick fix to migration. there is no magic silver bullet. what we wanted to do is look at every single aspect and come up with an all-encompassing plan, and i would like to thank cecilia and everyone who cooperated so well to get us to this stage. what we are saying here is that we must shift our thinking: no more emergency solutions to emergency situations. we want a sustainable long-term vision. our departing point is that solidarity must be the point of principle upon which any action on migration is based. it is clear that we still need to do more to prevent loss of life at sea, and we call for a permanent union response in search and rescue. when it comes to frontex and the european border and coast guard, we acknowledge that frontex and naval operations such as operation sophia have played their part in saving lives, but we need to go further. any holistic approach to migration must also necessarily contain measures aimed at criminal networks, and our report also tackles this point. this is crucial. we draw differences between those who are in need of protection and those who come to europe for work, because we understand that while people fleeing war and persecution have a right to protection, it is true that this does not equate to an inalienable right to migration. so we highlight that when it comes to labour migration, for example, it must be the member states who have control over the labour market, and that they and the union must see how best to fill any possible gaps in the market. when it comes to beneficiaries of international protection, we have come back again and again to the issue of relocation. if we are a union of shared values we must now truly become a union of shared responsibility. relocation is a move in the right direction, but the numbers of people relocated from italy and from greece are very disappointing. when it comes to safe and legal routes, we want a binding legislative approach for resettlement. on security, we cannot bury our heads in the sand. security fears do exist among our citizens, and states must fulfil their obligations at the external borders if these fears are to be in any way allayed. the abolition of internal border controls and schengen has to go hand in hand with strengthening external borders. this is simply a prerequisite if we are to save our celebrated schengen zone. we know that not everyone who arrives in europe is in fact eligible for protection, and we understand that the return of those who are not eligible must be carried out. only 36% of those who were ordered to leave the union were actually returned in 2014. on dublin, we know that there is an upcoming legislative process, but we have put forward one option whereby the establishment of a central system could be considered and the ‘country of first entry’ principle should no longer be applied. we want a new approach on integration. the way forward is to have a two-way process, and while, yes, everyone’s rights must be protected and yes, we must do more to keep families together, it is also fair to expect people to respect the values upon which our union is founded. we also talk about tackling the root causes and understand that greater commitment is needed to solve the geopolitical issues of our time. this means that europe must help build capacity in third countries which can eventually allow people to seek protection also in safe countries outside the eu. in conclusion, 1.8 million people crossed into europe last year. 3 771 drowned in the mediterranean. this year already more than 77 children have died. this is the magnitude of the situation we are facing and, as politicians, all of us have a duty to take a stand to ensure that these are not just nameless statistics. we cannot allow ourselves to become desensitised to the fact that migration is, above all, a human issue. these are real people with real lives, and we must all do better. it is time for action, and i hope that you will vote precisely for that today.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on petitions. other europe is facing an unprecedented humanitarian emergency - one that has made it clear that existing solutions at european level are definitely not working. the only way forward is through a common european solution. as rapporteur for the peti committee, i have seen clearly from the many petitions that this is one of the problems for european citizens. it is time to show our citizens that their concerns will finally be heard. beautiful words like 'fair sharing of responsibility', 'integration' and 'solidarity' have no effect if they are not backed up by concrete, visible and effective actions. therefore, we need a central system for allocating responsibilities, so that asylum claims are spread more evenly across member states; we need to review the dublin regulation, which in its present form is useless and has no function; the need for legal access routes to europe, thereby better controlling migrants coming to europe; and last but not least, we need to address the causes of migration and work to give these people a future in their own country and not have to flee to europe.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i would like to express my thanks for this very constructive debate. there is no doubt that migration is a controversial topic. we should avoid playing on the stereotypes. on the contrary, i would say, we have to fight stereotypes. the images of migrants being tear gassed do no honour to our european history and values or to our civilisation. we have to treat these people with respect, but we also need to have a plan – a policy – and to implement this policy, and this is where the problem sometimes lies. this brings me to what many of you have mentioned during this debate. relocation, yes, has to work. the numbers were mentioned before. only 1 145 persons have been relocated since mid-march. it is unacceptable. and from this house i again appeal to member states to make it happen, and to work at the same time on settlement. later today the commission will present a report on where we stand on relocation and resettlement. we need an objective and fair reform of rules on migrants for the european citizens, for the member states and for our partners abroad. we need a policy that does not lead to closing borders, putting schengen at risk. you know my position on fences and the closure of borders. i believe in building bridges, not walls. in particular, when there is a dispute between member states, schengen states – as is the case now, for example, between italy and austria – that this is not the proper solution. it is clear that the asylum system as it stands today is not functioning. europe has to adapt its migration policy to provide orderly and safe pathways to the european union for those who need protection and those who can contribute with their skills and talents to the european union’s economic development. we need to share responsibility, reduce irregular arrivals, and prevent and sanction secondary movements. let me be clear here, however: we do not want a cosmetic reform. we want an ambitious and substantial improvement of dublin which leads to fair outcomes for everyone. a key point that some of you mentioned is that children, especially unaccompanied children, need protection, and this is what we have to ensure by all means possible. many of you mentioned the eu-turkey deal. let me be frank with you. we – both the european union and turkey – have to use the common challenges we are facing as an opportunity to better respond to them and forge closer links through this cooperation. this can only be beneficial for both parties. implementation, as i said before, is difficult. it is already difficult to cooperate among member states and even more difficult with third countries, but we have achieved some important progress. i can assure you that this commission, in close cooperation with governments, international organisations and ngos, is investing a lot of effort and human resources and providing daily monitoring and dedication to make this deal work, while fully respecting european and international law. turkey has adopted legislative changes in order to ensure that in practice all syrians in turkey will be granted protection or have their protection renewed. discussions are ongoing to ensure that non-syrians in need of international protection will have access to asylum procedures, and resettlement from turkey has already started. member states are deploying officers to the greek islands. it is becoming clear now that frontline member states need support to manage the situation, and the flows have decreased. fewer people are putting their lives at risk; there are fewer victims of smugglers. this is what we want to achieve on a permanent basis. as some of you have rightly said, this is indeed a global challenge and requires a global response. that is why we keep an open channel of cooperation with unhcr, the united nations. this is why resettlement is a responsibility not just for the european union but for all international partners, for the united states and canada to the gulf states. the commission is determined to improve and strengthen our system to respond to the real needs of the new reality, whether that is asylum, legal migration, migration border systems or security. this not only means changing legislation, it also means putting the necessary human and financial resources together to effectively address the structural deficiencies of our migration and asylum system as a union. several of you mentioned the need to have a budget. i could not agree more, and i hope that i can count on your support to get it. we want to make our policies fit for purpose in the context of the challenges of the 21st century. this means building on what we have achieved so far but also being bold and honest to radically improve where needed. we are eager to take up a discussion with you, the european parliament, as well as other stakeholders, to make all these ideas concrete.
the rapporteur . i would like to thank all my colleagues who have been here throughout this long discussion and also thank everyone who has supported us during this process. i would like to admit that when we started this process over a year ago, i did not think we would find ourselves here, because as we heard during the discussion this morning, we have colleagues who think that this is the a report will create a european fortress, when you have other colleagues who think that this report will open all doors. my answer is that neither of those two solutions or arguments is valid. we wanted to strike a balance, to get a majority of colleagues in this plenary to agree that we must have solutions that are visionary, that are concrete and that are ambitious, as the commissioner has just said. and i wish that this a report would be the platform that goes beyond what we have done since i joined this parliament, where we have always adopted resolution after resolution that says a lot but does nothing. i would like to send a clear message today in this report from this institution that it wants to have concrete action on immigration, also in view of the fact that the crisis will not be resolved, also in view of the fact that we have problems in our neighbouring countries that will not be resolved quickly. i would like to see a report approved by a majority of this house today, in a short time, so that we can also send a message to the other institutions that the european parliament is capable of taking ambitious and courageous decisions in this time of crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the codification procedure should be undertaken in this case. given that the regulation was updated and amended several times since 2007, codification will make it simpler and more transparent. codification will make no changes to the substance of the regulation and the duty-free quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-ldc acp countries will remain in place.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the recast technique is to consolidate a legislative instrument, that has been amended a number of times into a single legal text, thereby making it more accessible and reader-friendly for the user. at the same time the text also includes some minor substantive changes. the favourable opinion of the committee on legal affairs confirms that the proposal is straightforward codification and limits itself to the identified substantive amendments. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this regulation as it codifies and recasts existing regulations on market access for developing countries. the proposed recast ensures transparency, clarity and a simplification of the current eu legislation in this field in a straightforward way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the products originating in certain acp states which aims to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of the eu legislation. this is a codification and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (the market access regulation) governing imports of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument provides duty-free quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-least developed countries (ldc) of the acp countries, in the run-up to the conclusion and application of respective wto-compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this report i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the eu, the government of denmark and the government of greenland. greater cooperation between the eu and greenland will benefit both parties. very importantly, it will ensure better compliance with the eu common fisheries policies and the fisheries partnership agreements.
in writing. ‒ the eu gives financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights to a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country’s exclusive economic zone. greenland is one of these partners within the framework towards developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in line with relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus. the renewal of these agreements is in the interests of both the eu and greenland to ensure fulfilment of protocol obligations. i support the benefits aimed at sustaining fish stocks and resolving some ongoing operational difficulties based on reliable scientific evidence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement as it leads to more sustainable and realistic fishing practices and gives european fisheries access to greenland’s waters, whilst also developing and increasing local employment opportunities in greenland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland: fishing opportunities and financial contribution. the protocol serves to maintain fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the greenlandic fishing zone and contributes to better management and conservation of fishery resources through sectoral support, in particular for the monitoring of domestic and foreign fleets and combating illegal fishing, as well as helping the development of the local fisheries sector, including the support of local employment. it is in line with the objectives of the cfp, respects the principle of available surplus and the obligation to follow scientific advice. regular reviewing ensures that the fpa/protocol is implemented as intended and provides improved value for money.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this report, i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china. this agreement will benefit eu airlines in the areas of safety, taxation and competition.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the placement of traditional designation clauses with an eu designation clause, permitting all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment. regulatory control will also strengthen safety. the agreement will also seek to provide a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the agreement ensures better safety provisions and harmonised aviation fuel taxation, and prohibits anti-competitive practices in bilateral agreements between the eu and macao.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the eu—macao agreement on certain aspects of air services since it changes provisions concerning the designation clause, safety, competition and taxation in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to maintain the minimum rate of value added tax at 15% for all of the member states until the end of the year 2018. such a measure is needed to avoid unfair competition until new measures are agreed. this will ensure a fair minimum that will ensure a good functioning of the internal market
in writing. ‒ directive 92/77/eec introduced a system of minimum rates. it stipulated that from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1996, the standard rate could not be set lower than 15% in any member state. this provision has been extended five times and applied until 31 december 2015. the purpose of the current proposal is to extend the application of the actual minimum standard rate of 15% in member states, for a period of two years, retroactively from 1st of january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report, as it provides the necessary clarity for stakeholders, allows a long term perspective for investors and contributes to a level playing field for businesses across europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which is a purely technical proposal extending the duration of the minimum standard rate (15%) from 1 january 2016 until 31 december 2017. this directive is a transitional system of minimum rates, and stipulates that the standard vat rate could not be set lower than 15% in any member state. minimum standard rate applied in all member states – as is currently the case – provides a useful safeguard to the proper functioning of the internal market without distortion of competition. considering that all member states currently levy a standard rate above 15%, the current arrangement for a minimum standard rate of 15% also ensures room for manoeuvre for member states, allowing for vat reforms intending to reduce the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates.
in writing. ‒ this vote provided another opportunity to assert that current exemptions on vat rates allowed to national economies for items such as food or health products should not be removed, unless it is with the express and free assent of the national government involved. vat is a tax which proportionately burdens lower income earners more than it does higher income ones. exemptions from it, especially those granted for social reasons, should be safeguarded. the effects of the 2008 recession, still with us, have been different across the member states. only in one area has the negative impact been similar everywhere: lower income citizens and families have been the most affected. worse: while this happened, the strong and the wealthy were finding very good ways to avoid and evade other non-consumption taxes that they were subject to. no matter what the original reason was for opt-outs from uniform vat levels across the member states, their removal now should be considered exclusively on their own merits, seen from a social perspective. the final decision should be left to national governments. the case against the adoption of a comprehensive minimum rate of vat across the board in the eu remains valid and extremely strong.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the agreement between brazil and europol which is designed to prevent and combat organised and cross-border crime and terrorism. such breaches of law can only be fought and prevented if law enforcement agencies from different countries cooperate with each other.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information should be mandatory to ensure an effective operational agreement. this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil which excludes the exchange of personal data in line with data protection. brazil is increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitated illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug related crimes and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime related activities. for this reason we need effective tools preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime with brazil as it could be a strategic partner.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report for increased cooperation between brazil and europol. by exchanging strategic information both brazilian and european authorities can more effectively fight organised crime, tackle fraud and combat trafficking in human beings and illegal drugs.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims to authorise the european police office (europol) to conclude an agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol, which may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical, or classified information, excluding personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity as in this particular case there is no reason to believe that the accusations made are in connection with his political activities. the relevant german authorities should be therefore allowed to investigate.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, in connection with launching investigative proceedings concerning an alleged offence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that international cooperation is needed in order to protect biodiversity in international waters. i welcome the decision to set up international conservation management systems which will help us preserve marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries policy is geared towards sustainability and maintenance of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks. this is essential for the long-term sustainability of fisheries. i support proportionality towards specific circumstances within member states to take steps to implement management plans, monitor the application of the rules, deepen their knowledge base and strengthen research networks and the coordination of information on marine biodiversity. strict control and inspection programmes are needed to monitor all aspects of the bluefin tuna fishery and enforce the rules, but we should be sensitive towards specific realities like malta’s tuna industry.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this report on the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity. the eu has shown that properly implemented measures in this field can lead to an improvement of habitats and fishing stocks, and i welcome the efforts undertaken by the united nations towards internationally and legally binding instruments in this field.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because blue growth is one of the main priorities on our agendas. over the past decades, human activities at sea have multiplied. the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment. fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the marine economy. responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to sustainable development and a healthy marine eco-system. it is important that fishing is integrated into this vision of the future of the sea that is blue growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because a new regulation on animal breeding is needed. the rules should be more comprehensive and precise in order to avoid different interpretations and misunderstandings. that is why i especially welcome the introduction of definitions of terms such as ‘breed’ or ‘endangered and rare breed’. clearer and more specific rules will help us in conserving rare breeds and protecting biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ there are far too many delegated acts which are far too broad in scope concerning this topic. animal health and welfare, including transport conditions for live animals, are concerns that need to be taken into account by all actors in the zootechnical sector, in particular with regard to genetic improvement of breeds. our legislation on the breeding of animals has also contributed to the preservation of animal genetic resources, the protection of genetic biodiversity, the union’s cultural heritage and the production of typical-quality regional products that rely on the specific hereditary characteristics of local breeds of domestic animals. this is something which should be sustained.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on breeding animals and germinal products, as it would both help in the preservation of genetic resources and encourage intra-eu free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on breeding animals and their germinal products because i believe that breeders’ societies are at the core of the preservation and improvement of our breeds and clear rules are needed in order to better protect their actions and the breeders themselves. europe has a rich variety of breeds of domestic farm animals, constituting the largest genetic population of farms animals. those breeds were selected by generations of farmers and breeders to be better adapted to their region: more productive, stronger, thus creating local breeds that are part of our heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the european union needs a common and comprehensive response to the current refugee crisis. the report covers a wide range of aspects related to migration and outlines promising measures which should help us deal more effectively with the current situation. these cover the very important aspects such as border management, which is a crucial part to ensure the survival of schengen, as well as a plan to return those not eligible for protection. as outlined by the report, our migration strategy should be based on cooperation, solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the creation of new safe and lawful routes for asylum seekers and refugees irrespective from where they come, entering the union needs to be supported. this will also help to address the tragedies that occur in these voyages as well as undermine the business model of smugglers. malta has consistently maintained that dublin rules place an unfair burden on frontier countries and called for amendments to achieve a fairer distribution of asylum seekers across the eu. reform must not be seen in isolation but would have to be part of a holistic package, including fostering relations with third countries and addressing the root causes of migration. an effective holistic reform must deliver more solidarity, both towards migrants and towards other member states dealing with the crisis. the commitment of member states’ prime ministers should do away with national electoral blinkers so as to ensure the much—needed progress on migration is achieved. migration is not an issue for one single member states, but for all together as much as with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i was proud to support the final text, after months of hard work with mep kyenge. the level of cross-party support for this report sends a strong message that this house needs to look beyond emergency measures for emergency situations and look towards a long term vision on this issue by pushing for the union to adopt a holistic approach that provides the best opportunity to take responsible action as regards migration.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration, which highlights the need of a well-rounded approach to migration. the main elements of any holistic approach to migration must include: a fundamental overhaul of the dublin iii regulation, in favour of a centralised union system for allocating responsibility among the member states based on fair and objective criteria; a permanent, robust and effective union response in search and rescue operations at sea in the context of a union wide humanitarian operation; a binding and mandatory legislative approach to resettlement providing for resettlement of a meaningful number of refugees having regard to the overall number of refugees seeking protection in the union;
in writing. ‒ it is important for national parliaments to exchange views on the scope and evaluation methods applied in order to assess conformity with the subsidiarity and proportionality principles. eu’s competences should always be guided by these principles. the eu only has exclusive competence in circumstances where the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states on their own, either at central level or at regional and local level, but can rather, by reason of scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a good analysis of the implementation of subsidiarity and proportionality principles in the years 2012-2013. the two principles are an integral part of eu’s policy making procedures and are linked to democracy. they are essential to ensure the trust of citizens in the eu and reduce the democratic deficit. despite the decent situation as presented by the report, i believe that there is always room for improvement and national parliaments should be even more involved in the eu policy making.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it highlights the progress already made in the field of subsidiarity and proportionality, but also provides concrete proposals for improvement, such as in the inclusion of smes and civil society in the eu decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of closer participation and stronger involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process, which has resulted in an increase in the awareness of the principles upon which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the inter-institutional context. however, i also believe that the commission need to involve all stakeholders including social partners, consumers organisations, ngos in the impact assessment of eu legislation, to run the proportionality and subsidiarity check (at ex-ante stage), and to monitor implementation (ex-post stage). this report follows a different aim, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the commission’s agenda for better regulation. i welcome the commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) with its aims to remove regulatory burdens and to improve the quality of legislation and most importantly its implementation, among others. a very important part of this report aims to give full respect the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. additionally, i would like to point out that another important element concern the impact assessments, which should also be more comprehensive and include a competitiveness assessment.
in writing. ‒ the report on regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): state of play and outlook one third of the administrative burden linked to eu legislation stems from national implementing measures or flexible transposition options. i agree with the call on the commission, therefore, in reviewing the legal framework of regulations and directives, to promote a revival of the principle of the common internal market and, wherever possible, to avoid allowing scope for differing national provisions. the assessment of refit and further efforts on better regulation should follow the shift towards digitisation of the economy, society and public administration. i believe that extensive use of the refit tool and the use of fitness checks could also contribute to assessing the coherence and consistency of regulatory areas within the broader framework of the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it critically assesses the commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme, and the consequent impact on the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with the principles of regulatory fitness and performance and support the initiative at a european and national level. i also support initiatives launched by the european commission which aim to strengthen the continuation of the reduction of administrative and regulatory burdens.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the most important components of our community, the key to economic growth and job creation, and should be regularly improved and updated in line with the continuously changing economic conditions. i particularly welcome more flexible rules for smes and the greater focus on consumers which recognises their importance to our economy. the report seeks improvements to the single market and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the forthcoming internal market strategy should be aimed at improving single market regulation through an effort to learn from the experiences of the past in the areas of free movement of goods and services, the digital single market, professional qualifications and public procurement. we all know that digital innovation is outpacing politics, and entrepreneurs are driving the digital agenda. in this situation it is of key importance to provide rules that are digital by default and this report advocates for that. through a ‘digital by default’ section, the commission is seeking to gain a deep understanding of user needs. i agree with the statement that small businesses often do not have the time or resources to participate in regular consultations and their participation needs to be facilitated. through my vote i call upon the commission to find user-friendly and innovative ways to reach out to smes and start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this resolution as it emphasises the need for a shared responsibility in improving regulation in our single market and helps to reduce the burden on our enterprises, producers and innovators.
in writing. ‒ i support a number of suggestions in the report seeking to make regulation in the area of the single market more effective and efficient emphasising the importance of a functioning single market for growth and job creation in the union. nevertheless, there are some paragraphs implying that ‘better regulation’ and reducing gold-plating should be used as an excuse to limit as much as possible eu regulatory powers, and to get rid of the existing solid eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards. therefore, i voted against the final resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ too many europeans still know too little about the eu, which leads to a distrust in the eu institutions and the false, but growing belief that the european project is failing. measures need to be taken in order to change this and i voted in favour of this report as it outlines many of them, for example an adequate financial support for student exchange programmes which help greatly in the development of a european mentality and appreciation for the benefits that the eu citizenship brings. education should be a key component in our struggle against populism and different forms of extremism.
in writing. ‒ amidst the threat of radicalisation striking at the heart of shared values, it becomes even more pertinent that our youths are empowered to make the european project their own. education on eu values, such as social inclusion, solidarity, democracy, good governance and rule of law are common treads in european culture which can facilitate students’ understanding and contribute towards the development of european societies. most member states teach european studies; european values and culture go beyond the study of formal structures and processes. i call upon the commission to strengthen its contribution towards facilitating education on european values and culture by contributing towards educators’ continuous training opportunities, provide common guidelines that set high standards in education, support networking and sharing of good practices and provide teachers with e-learning platforms and digital materials that facilitate their teaching. teaching european values and culture is not, however, just for the classroom, and measures of informal and non-formal education that create links between youths and the institutions, and that bring students and teachers from different member states together, need to be strongly supported.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which aims to improve knowledge about the union at an early stage. by educating students about our union and preparing citizens we can make it easier for them to contribute to the policy-making process and reduce the european union’s perceived democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on learning eu at school because i believe that the inclusion of the european dimension in education, with learning eu at school being a crucial component, aims to help create a sense of european citizenship, and deepen knowledge of the role of eu values to tackle the widespread euroscepticism. it will allow a better understanding of eu history and culture as well as its policy-making decision process, and enable children to critically reflect on european matters and became engaged in the civic and intercultural dialogue that reflects the diversity of the union. the report highlights the role of the union and member states, calling for guidelines and a common framework to promote learning eu at school, enhance existing and future networks exchanges at all educational levels and focus on curricula, teacher training, teaching methods, mobility, research and the use of new technologies. it also recognised the role played by social partners and civil society organisations.
in writing. ‒ unemployment among young people is still very high and as policymakers we need as many initiatives as possible that will help reduce it. this report outlines one such initiative and i therefore voted in favour. mobility programmes such as erasmus+ have proven to increase employability among the participants, but unfortunately they are only available to university students. i believe it would be a very good idea to introduce mobility programmes in vocational education and of course to promote this type of education itself and make them more attractive for young people. this will lead to a more diverse workforce in the future. the programmes should also be designed in cooperation with the employers, particularly the small and medium enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that vet is not an educational pathway of less worth. the negative perception on vet when contrasted to formal education has to be addressed through a concerted and common approach. we can start by establishing common high standards in european vet to provide learners with training of good standard and facilitate mobility and recognition of competences amongst diverse national systems. tackling the negative perception revolving around vet also means that member states have to cease using vet as a means to depict a decrease in the number of early school leavers by lowering the educational and training component or else pushing learners towards vet from a very young age without ensuring that they gain basic skills. vet is not the stop plug to early school leaving. it is just one of the measures that may entice early school leavers to return to training but other measures taking place earlier on in a learner’s life are needed. erasmus + and it’s effective implementation represents an important tool for re-skilling, widening and upgrading skills within a lifelong learning programme that can facilitate employment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the use of erasmus+ and other european tools to improve the mobility of students enrolled in vocational education and training. by using these tools in the proposed way we can improve opportunities for young europeans.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this important report, which focuses on the implementation of erasmus+ and the mobility aspect to vocational educational training as the continuation of previous leonardo programme. it considers the objectives of the mobility programme and calls on the commission and the member states to adopt concrete measures to improve the social and economic impact to achieve a highly skilled workforce with inclusive education policies. enhanced mobility for vet, in particular for youth apprenticeship and trainees, will contribute to growth and job creation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think that there are still some shortcomings when it comes to the presence of the eu in international institutions. while their diversity is understandable, more cohesion between them is needed. this would make the creation and implementation of different policies much more effective and would ensure greater transparency and accountability. the eu institutions should also become more active on the international arena and i would especially like to see the european parliament being more visible.
in writing. ‒ report on the eu role in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies i agree that numerous macroeconomic matters require greater coordination, however i reaffirm that the establishment of one-size-fits-all representation for all eu countries within international financial institutions is sensitive and not straightforward, as is the creation of a global financial organisation. tax harmonisation is outside european jurisdiction and should remain so. this does not mean that full transparency in national tax schemes is not needed; in fact this is needed and i support it. tax convergence and harmonisation, however, does not take into account the difficulties and obstacles of smaller economies like malta, and this can lead to financial instability in some member states.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it helps to clarify the eu’s role within several organisations. it also calls for a review of multilateral global cooperation, which could help in the defence of the eu’s and the euro’s strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls to enhance international regulatory cooperation, enhance transparency, accountability and democratisation – with strong involvement of the european parliament. the remit of each organisation and body should be clarified, as well as the ways in which they operate and are financed, including voluntary contributions, gifts and donations, in order to ensure absence of vested interests and legality of decisions. the eu should streamline and codify its representation in multilateral organisations/bodies. the commission should be held more directly accountable to citizens and the role of the parliament in this process must be stronger. the two separate seats currently allocated to the european council and commission presidencies at g20 meetings should be thoroughly assessed.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important report, especially to the regions that are most involved in coastal fishing. i voted in favour as it outlines proposals which could help improve the industry, help it grow and develop further. coastal fishing is a major part of our fleet; it creates employment and is environmentally sustainable. one of the proposals mentioned in the report is the greater support for innovative projects which aim to create sustainable jobs, promote entrepreneurship and introduction of new technologies to facilitate the development of coastal regions.
in writing. ‒ i support the key objective to fund activities that are socially, environmentally and economically viable and capable of creating employment, particularly for young people and women. this is a challenge which is not easy to overcome. making marine aquaculture compatible and complementary with coastal fishing often presents issues which affect people’s living. this entails long-term support for sustainable growth for all marine and maritime sectors, acknowledging the importance of seas and oceans as the powerhouses which generate employment and create employment in the coastal regions. malta has approximately 90% of its commercial vessels less than 12 m in length and more than half of them are of a traditional design, mainly ‘luzzu’ and ‘kajjik’ which operate mainly in coastal waters. some coastal and island regions are facing a significant economic decline of such fleets, which is resulting in depopulation and the exodus of their inhabitants, who seek opportunities in areas offering better prospects for employment and education.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent regions. by implementing the measures in this resolution europe can make an organised effort to improve economic growth and reduce unemployment in both the long and short term.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is an exceptionally important form of fishing in eu countries. it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. for most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a traditional form of fishing that forms a way of life and a significant source of livelihood. areas which depend on coastal fisheries require specific measures and support in order to grow and develop. the report looks at how innovation and diversification can help coastal regions dependant on fishing to survive. therefore, i fully support and voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea that the common fisheries policy should have an external dimension, especially given that the eu is the largest importer of fish products. it is therefore important that we increase cooperation with our partners in areas such as promotion of sustainable fisheries, transparency and competition. i particularly welcome the social dimension of this report, namely that it seeks to improve the protection of workers in this industry and promote better, safer working conditions and in general to create more sustainable employment, for example through the hiring of local crews in the context of sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
in writing. ‒ better linkage between the sectorial support provided under fishing agreements and the instruments available falls within the scope of cooperation on development. i support full transparency in the funding of fisheries projects and the use of sectorial support, so as to ensure the proper use of eu funds. despite the role played by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), differences in the rules applied to eu and third country fleets operating in the same fisheries have been causing considerable problems for eu fishermen. i support the call to increase eu efforts in the mediterranean basin by means of closer cooperation with local bodies, regional organisations, scientific institutions, observatories and country-based fisheries clusters. there is a role for the eu in the resolution of conflicts between vessels in the mediterranean, and in supporting and assisting fishermen who are frequently subject to confrontations with third-country vessels or even vessels from different member states.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report on the common fisheries policy as it provides clearer common rules on the european union fisheries policy, but also contributes to a more sustainable use of the dwindling maritime resources. the proposed increased transparency and better management of fishing stocks are a clear and commendable improvement of existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report on the external dimension of the cfp, including a fisheries agreement that promotes an excellent strategy for realising the eu objective of promoting sustainable fisheries at a global level by using the eu’s influence on the international stage to improve fisheries management and transparency standards.
mr president, i was in brussels both during and after the attacks and, while people were scared, there was a palpable feeling of defiance, a determination not to allow these murderous thugs to condition how we live our lives. but as shock begins to give way to anger, we must have the tools to respond to ensure that our law enforcement agencies are one step ahead. the first step must be to immediately implement a passenger name record (pnr) system – any moves to derail the process within this house would be really unhelpful and unacceptable. we must strengthen europol. if we do not have adequate sharing of information, then criminals and terrorists will continue to exploit gaps in our intelligence apparatus. states also need better powers to reconsider and revoke passports of those who travel to syria and other conflicts only to return to europe to recruit and radicalise more citizens. these so-called foreign fighters do not deserve the protection that their european passports grant them. finally, we must come down harder on those who spread hate within our communities, as well as those who abuse the internet to spread their message of evil. in brussels, men women and children of every nationality, from every background and from every religion, were killed. no one was spared. this was an attack on all of us.
question for the blue paper. i have great respect for the honourable pittella - i know he is an honest and integrity-based politician, and i agree with him when he says that we should have zero tolerance for all those involved in this scandal. but i would like to know how mr pittella is going to go from words to deeds. you have one involved government of a european country in the european union. you have a minister of a european government and you have the chief of cabinet of a prime minister of a european country. i know that they come from a socialist party, and he knows it too, but we must no longer look to parties in this parliament, but to what is right, to what is good for european citizens.
the european union has made important achievements in combating money laundering and increasing fiscal transparency. but the panama papers have shown that those with deceptive intentions and enough power in their hands can influence and circumvent laws and rules. i'm referring, of course, to the concealment of funds through complex structures. malta has a sound financial services industry, which complies with the highest regulatory standards. we have a jurisdiction that enjoys the highest reputation for financial services, with strict legislation and very effective regulatory oversight. actions by a small clique, however, of people in power who had to resort to services inside panama are not evidence of this. the people involved are not maltese, dear colleagues, and do not reflect the hard work, discipline and honest and upright character of the maltese people. the maltese people, together with you, together with the majority of this house, are unequivocal and are saying that acts of corruption and lax legislation are completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated. and so, i would like to agree with the members of parliament coming from the other side of this house, who are maltese like me, to urge those who have to take a decision in countries to take it as soon as possible so that malta, which is an honest malta and malta complies with european rules, is no longer harmed. (the president agreed to answer a question on a blue paper (under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to blue paper. yes madam president, i confirm that the opposition has asked for a vote of no confidence in the government. we are not interested in a new election, we are not interested in joining the government - for now (the government has two years left), but i think that the prime minister, his minister responsible for this scandal should resign. however, a demonstration was also held which was attended by many thousands of maltese people from all sides of the maltese political spectrum. and unfortunately at the moment, madam president, there is an orchestrated attack being carried out against individuals who attended this protest, individuals who are serious people, who are honest people, who do a lot of good for malta. and that's another scandal, to have a government that allows these people to be attacked.
in writing.– it was necessary to conclude quickly an agreement between the eu and turkey on migrant flows. in prevailing circumstances the agreement is the best arrangement possible. however, the strategic flaws inherent in it should be recognised. the most important problem remains that turkey-eu relations have become poisoned by a mutual bad faith that is long-term in scope. it goes beyond the ongoing differences that relate to europe’s critical views about authoritarian developments and human rights issues in turkey’s governance; the kurdish question; and the problem of a divided cyprus. even if all these issues were resolved, the bad faith would persist. there is still a lack of clarity and honesty regarding turkey’s future as a member or non-member of the european union. is the eu able, with one voice, to declare unequivocally that should turkey satisfy all the requirements for it to become an eu member, membership would inevitably ensue? the answer is no. but this is not acknowledged. so an indispensable basis, one way or another, by which to define eu-turkey relations long-term is missing. it is another reason why the eu’s diplomatic leverage with turkey is so restricted and both sides regard each other with suspicion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised in the case of the swedish volvo trucks where a considerable number of workers have been recently made redundant. the redundancies had been caused by the emergence of strong competition from the asian truck manufacturers to which the swedish company had been unable to adjust without a significant decrease in costs. the fund should be made available in order to help the workers who lost their jobs to help them find new employment.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the case of volvo trucks the conditions set out in the egf regulation are met and therefore sweden is entitled to a financial contribution apart from this instrument it would be suitable to also have commission strategies that anticipate labour market changes so as to protect jobs and ensure skills training on the basis of comprehensive trade impact assessments.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to help address the situation of the workers in this automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on this report giving the green light for the mobilisation of this european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) related to 647 redundancies in volvo trucks and 4 suppliers and downstream producers of volvo trucks, operating in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, within the reference period 24 february 2015 - 24 june 2015. the egaf funding shall contribute to help 500 former workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thereby gave my consent for the mobilisation of the fund for technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission. the amount granted to the commission should improve the general functioning of this facility through improvement of monitoring and data gathering on applications received, creation of a knowledge base and more frequent consultations with the egf implementing bodies and social partners.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. apart from this instrument it would be suitable to also have commission strategies that anticipate labour market changes so as to protect jobs and ensure skills training on the basis of comprehensive trade impact assessments.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it helps to improve the functioning of the fund. i therefore voted in favour of this report to improve the performance of this fund in order to better address the situation of those affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on a report containing a decision to mobilize the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the amount of the foreseen egf contribution, eur 380 000, will be used for financing various activities such as data gathering, creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities as well as audit, control and evaluation activities.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal of the european commission to provide additional financial support to the regions particularly affected by the current refugee crisis. those regions should not be left to cope with the crisis alone and in the spirit of solidarity the european union should try to provide some financial relief in situations where it is able to so do. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the submission of the commission and taking into account the council’s position, i chose to support this report, which highlights the various measures agreed by the commission, council and parliament to balance the additional funds required from member states.
in writing. ‒ in light of the current deteriorating situation of migrants and asylum seekers, particularly due to the uncoordinated response by european countries, which makes such emergency support all the more necessary and urgent and the need to show solidarity with the member states facing such an emergency situation on their territory, i welcome the commission proposal and voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 1/ 2016: new instrument to provide emergency support within the union.
in writing. ‒ i see no reason to oppose the favourable opinion on the council’s by the cont committee. i accept the opinion of the cont committee regarding the nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors, thus i voted in favour of his nomination.
in writing. ‒ court of auditors is the eu’s independent external auditor body that exercises control over the eu funds if they are collected and used correctly, and help improve eu financial management. the committee on budgetary control delivered a positive opinion on the nomination of mihail kozlov, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i respect the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ court of auditors is the eu’s independent external auditor body that exercises control over the eu funds if they are collected and used correctly, and help improve eu financial management. the committee on budgetary control delivered a negative opinion on the nomination of ladislav balko, thus i voted against.
in writing. ‒ court of auditors is the eu’s independent external auditor body that exercises control over the eu funds if they are collected and used correctly, and help improve eu financial management. the committee on budgetary control delivered a negative opinion on the nomination of janusz wojciechowski, thus i voted against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the commission proposal on the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate needs to be revised. the renewal period of 15 years proposed by the commission is certainly too long and while i understand that the substance cannot be completely banned due to the lack of alternatives, stricter limitations need to be applied until such alternatives are found.
in writing. ‒ with constant growing concern on health and the increased connection between the former and the environment, i value the provision aimed to ensure that active substances or products placed on the market do not adversely affect human or animal health or the environment. i welcome the possibility for member states to apply the precautionary principle where there is scientific uncertainty as to risks with regard to human or animal health or the environment posed by the plant products to be authorised in their territory, particularly but not only on substances which are potentially carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ i joined a majority in the european parliament by voting in favour of a compromise on the controversial plant protection product glyphosate, dismissing the initial european commission proposal calling for a renewal of another 15 years without substantial conditions. a much shorter period was needed. while a temporary limited renewal was justified, above all, i voted for much stricter conditions that will prohibit or at least limit the use of glyphosate in the private sector and on public grounds.
in writing. ‒ based on the fact of the who international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classifying glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans after evaluating a large body of scientific, i believe that the commission should not renew the approval of glyphosate and rapidly ensure an independent review of the classification of glyphosate based on all available scientific evidence relating to carcinogenicity of glyphosate as well as possible endocrine disruptive properties. therefore, for the moment i fully support the objection to renew the approval of the active substance glyphosate for the maximum permissible period of 15 years.
in writing. ‒ the world is changing rapidly and so is the context in which the eu is situated. i believe that the eu is still capable of solving both its internal and external crises and of becoming an even stronger actor on the international arena. i voted in favour of this report as it provides a number of good proposals with regard to the eu global strategy on foreign and security policy. it is important to increase cooperation in europe in order to find truly common solutions to eu problems.
in writing. ‒ development and security are interlinked and often interdependent, two sides of the same coin. the eu needs to reinforce a coordination mechanism for identifying the potential implications of policies on development objectives, and for integrating development aspects into policy initiatives from the outset. sustainable development goals, in particular those of promoting good governance, human rights, democracy and justice, combating poverty, reducing inequalities and social exclusion, help in tackling unemployment and barriers to sustainable and inclusive social and economic growth. but we need a more systematic measurement of impacts.
in writing. ‒ i want the eu to truly act as a global player on the world stage. i therefore supported this resolution on a more engaged european union which will help to stabilise the european neighbourhood and lead to strengthened multilateral global governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the importance of having a strong eu-central asia strategy, both economically and strategically. i also welcome the strengthening of this partnership by the re-establishment of the post of eu special representative for central asia, whose role will be to oversee and coordinate our activities in the region. i also look forward to making use of this strategy to promote human rights, democracy and good governance in the region.
in writing. ‒ there is great scope for the eu to enhance its action and cooperation with central asian countries. however, there is a fundamental factor which needs to remain a priority. it is respect for human rights and democracy, which remain at the core of the eu strategy vis-à-vis the scope of cooperation envisaged. i regret that the legal obligations vested in the pcas for upholding democracy and the rule of law have not been properly implemented at all times and there have been instances where progress was gauged through financial opportunities rather than core obligations which distinguishes the eu from other regional blocs.
in writing. ‒ i have given my support to this resolution on the cooperation between europe and central asia. by implementing this strategy we can work towards further rights protection and democratisation. this strategy can also contribute to closer economic cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy, which is parliament’s contribution to the review of the eu central asia strategy. the region has a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies, security and counter-terrorism. at the same time, the human rights situation throughout the region’s countries remains appalling and shows no sign of improving, with the partial exception of kyrgyzstan, where it was relatively less bad than in other countries to begin with. i support the report that makes it clear that the eu engagement should not be pursued at the expense of democratic values.
in writing. ‒ although i fully recognise the concerns about the spread of the zika virus and the serious consequences it has on new born children i voted against this resolution as it contains unacceptable references to termination of pregnancy. i am against the free access to abortion and voting in favour of such measures would be contrary to my beliefs.
in writing. ‒ i support focused research on preventive measures to avoid the spread of the virus, and on treatments investigating the strongly suspected link between the zika virus and congenital brain malformations. this should lead to the development of treatments and vaccinations and rapid and effective diagnosis. i disagree with calls in both the original text and amendments favouring access to safe abortion in order to combat the rise in unsafe abortions. this is something which falls out of the european legislative remit to decide upon.
in writing. ‒ while the proposal contained a number of very valid points that deserve discussion, i could not support it as the final version included unacceptable references to abortion, which is an issue that the eu has no competence on.
in writing. ‒ i hope that we have learnt our lesson from the recent ebola outbreak and our experience of the past epidemics, and that the structures we already have in place stand us in good stead to make an effective and swift response to developments. i welcome the eu funding of eur 10 million to examine the potential link of the zika virus with the epidemic of congenital brain malformations and other neurological complications observed across latin america and french polynesia. we have to step up efforts to research the virus and its suspected effects, tests for rapid diagnosis, and treatments and vaccines. prevention must be promoted by way of mosquito control, and we must also be prepared for an outbreak in mainland europe. therefore, i have voted in favour of the resolution with some exceptions on paragraphs on abortion, which are not competences of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am very concerned about the actions of the current polish government and the polish president in relation to the constitutional tribunal, an institution which, by definition, should be impartial and ensure checks and balances and control the actions of the government in power. the paralysis of the tribunal is worrying, especially in a country that contributed so significantly to the abolishment of communism in eastern europe, and borders on the breach of european laws and values such as the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the freedom of speech as enshrined in the treaties. i hope that the majority of the polish people continue to enjoy the benefits of the membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in poland. there are legitimate concerns about the application of the rule of law and whether the current government there is willing to uphold fundamental rights in the eu. with this resolution we address those concerns, speak out for media freedom and pluralism, and urge all players to respect the treaties on which our european union is built.
madam president, may i start by congratulating colleague le grip and the shadows for their work. they have managed to shape the proposal in a way that brings about much—needed protection for trade secrets, while addressing concerns. europe needs innovation and research. this directive is one way of providing researchers, as well as those who invest in research, with much-needed protection. it will enhance the value of innovation and research by providing legal certainty, where none existed to date, over research which is not at a stage of being registered for protection or published. to date, european researchers have depended heavily on uncertain ways to protect their work from being unjustifiably taken by others. european researchers were in limbo on safeguarding their work until it was advanced enough to entitle them to register it or publish it under their name. this situation has prejudiced cooperation between researchers and stakeholders and has also negatively impacted the opportunities of individual researchers, smes and start-ups. the proposed directive will bring about legal certainty and protection where there was none. it will make collaboration and cooperation between researchers, institutes and companies more feasible. this will also place european researchers on a more equal platform of protection with their counterparts outside the eu. most importantly, this directive will give value and recognition to what otherwise would have been considered to be merely ‘confidential information’. this will provide smes and start-ups with protection of their research and innovation at a point where registration is not possible, even due to prohibitive costs.
question for the blue paper. other i think that the social sector would be damaged if every european country saw that those who should be paying taxes on their income, do so in those countries, so that those taxes could be used for the social sector. we must fight those european citizens who invest in countries like panama so that their money cannot be taxed as any other european citizen should be.
as already mentioned, unfortunately, the eu 2020 poverty targets have not yet been reached. we need to take measures to ensure that our citizens have a decent life, that they also have a decent income, but not at the cost of making our citizens dependent only on the social sphere. we need to support a vibrant market, to have higher wages guaranteeing that social protection. i think we also need to ensure that we have a balance between competitiveness and a socially fair area. we need to look at how we can better coordinate the european funds we have in the european union. and i think that the fight against poverty should be addressed with an integrated strategy that focuses on a holistic plan that integrates together education, energy, transport, the labour market and social policy. (the president accepted to answer a 'blue paper' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to blue paper. of course, that is an area that talks about how we can help our citizens, that is an area that comes under subsidiarity. i think we should encourage every country to have some kind of schemes but we should not link any european country to necessarily having to adopt that kind of measures. of course, each country can see how to have a strong social area and we must see that that area is relevant to all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends that parliament approves the council position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation).
in writing. ‒ there was an urgent need to update the european union’s legislation on data protection. i supported this proposal as it provides a fair and balanced improvement of european union legislation on data protection, which has been sorely missing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which was designed to bring europe’s data protection laws into the 21st century. it involves two elements – one covering the processing of personal data by industry and government and a second one covering data used by police and criminal justice authorities. these new laws ensure strong protections for all eu citizens in how their data can be used by police and criminal authorities. this is essential as if the data of suspects, witnesses or victims is not handled correctly, this can compromise their safety as well as their right to privacy or a fair trial. for the first time we now have clear strict laws on how law enforcement agencies can access and use personal data that apply equally to all eu citizens. all police forces in europe must now fully respect the fundamental right of protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends that parliament approves the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this legislative proposal as it improves the way in which the data of individuals are processed by authorities, in relation to crime prevention, investigation or detection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will facilitate the exchange of information between countries and help ensure that national law enforcement agencies have the information they need on suspects involved in terrorism or cross-border crime, which is essential in order for the eu to harmonise rules on how police and criminal authorities can process and transfer data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this is a very important agreement that should have come sooner rather than later. the new rules on data protection will help us deal more effectively with organised crime. i believe this is an enormous step in our struggle against terrorism. organised crime has become increasingly transnational in nature and it requires a transnational response. a legal framework will thus be created in order to allow for the exchange of pnr data between the member states. i particularly welcome the measures that will ensure the security of data such as the appointment of a data protection officer.
in writing. ‒ the use of passenger name record (pnr) data is an essential element of the fight against international terrorism. we cannot allow gaps that are present in our intelligence systems to continue to be exploited by terrorists and criminals. pnr addresses some of these gaps. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the passenger name record (pnr) directive, which creates a legal framework for the use of data in the eu, which is an essential tool in the 21st century in order to fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the information which provides any company with a competitive advantage should be protected under law and any unlawful acquisitions of such information should be punished. i welcome the commission proposal particularly because it provides a common definition of trade secrets which will help to avoid over- or under-interpretation of rules.
in writing. ‒ i understand the criticisms made against this proposal. at the same time, european researchers and innovators, especially smes and start-ups need protection from the commercial theft of their invention. the proposed directive does not prohibit or inhibit the publication of confidential information where this is in the public interest. it does not prohibit the publication of information such as the panama papers, that is information (related to an invention, research or business know-how) the publication of which serves a public interest. but it does prohibit the publication of such information where this is tantamount to commercial theft of trade know—how. europe has seen companies suffering commercial theft leading to job losses, social difficulties and loss of economic value, as well as instances where start-ups’ innovation is stifled through forcible take—over by big companies. i supported this directive in the committee on legal affairs (juri) and in plenary to ensure that researchers, innovators and inventors are given a fighting chance of bringing about change in european societies while receiving the recognition they deserve for their work. the proposal protects two very important principles: publication of information in the public interest and recognition of european inventors, innovators and researchers.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as it protects research and business from unlawful exposure of their trade secrets. crucially the proposal contains important safeguards for the protection of whistle—blowers and journalistic freedoms that will ensure that there will be no redress under this law, if the information in question is used for a public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive. it proposes an unprecedented text on the protection of whistle-blowers, which could become a positive precedent. media freedom and freedom of expression are excluded in a very clear way from the application of the directive. the report presents strong guarantees on workers’ mobility and workers’ right to information and representation are secured, as well as safeguards for disclosure to public authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it affirms that this budget will be a continuation and intensification of the institution’s policy of carrying out efficiency gains in all areas where these are possible without compromising the quality of the work environment of the members and staff. the report sets out four priority objectives, namely: security and cyber-security; phasing out of the derogation for the irish language; ongoing measures to empower members in their mandate; and making parliament attractive to the public and visitors. i believe that parliament’s position is even more poignant when considering that its credibility as one arm of the budgetary authority depends to a large extent on its ability to bring its own spending under control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it reflects the fact that the treaty of lisbon established the parliament as a true co—legislator. the report also notes the necessity to improve parliament’s it security infrastructure to ensure the maximum possible level of protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on parliament’s estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a key strategic partner of the european union and the ongoing dialogue is important in order to keep our good relations. i do have concerns about freedom of expression and assembly in turkey, as well as human rights, and i believe that these matters need to remain on our radar. in parallel, i believe that cooperation with turkey in different areas such as energy security – and especially the refugee crisis – is needed, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ each candidate country will be judged on its own merits. for me, respect for the rule of law is at the core of the negotiation process, including in particular the separation of powers, freedom of expression and of the media, human rights and democracy. i am concerned that the overall pace of reforms in turkey has slowed down considerably in recent years. this is highlighted in the report, as is the concern on the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. in this sense, there has been a regression moving increasingly away from meeting the copenhagen criteria to which candidate countries must adhere.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it presents a balanced view of the situation in turkey, commending its efforts in the fight against the so-called islamic state whilst also stressing the need for protection of rights.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the progress report on turkey since the negotiation process must continue and be accelerated. there is a need for more democracy, especially in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of media, the rule of law and the rights of minorities. the resolution calls on turkish authorities to fully adopt european values and the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for protection of religious freedom and the rule of law as these are fundamental values of the european union, and emphasise the need for constructive and sustainable political dialogue between political forces on eu-related reforms. this is essential to making further progress in the eu accession process; whereby fair play, constructive dialogue, cooperation and willingness to compromise between government and opposition is vital for a successful and sustainable reform process. it is of utmost importance for albania to strengthen their efforts in the fight against the production and trafficking of drugs and narcotics, including by stepping up international and regional cooperation on human trafficking, better protection of and redress for victims, and an improved track record as regards investigation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution regarding the progress that albania made in 2015. the resolution comments on the need to improve albania’s record of investigations, prosecutions and convictions at all levels, as this will contribute to the country’s efforts to combat organised crime. lastly, the resolution also notes the positive steps that albania has made in relation to religious tolerance.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the progress in albania, which urges the government to keep to the reform efforts and supports albania’s european perspective. it believes that the opening of accession negotiations, as soon as possible, will provide a tangible incentive for the positive transformation of the country.
in writing. ‒ democratic elections cannot be achieved unless a wide range of other human rights and fundamental freedoms can be exercised on an ongoing basis without discrimination. in democratic processes, grassroots civil society plays an important role in peace-building, conflict resolution and reconciliation. particularly youth participation in intercultural dialogue and exchange, as well as in the political sphere, are also of vital importance. i commend the adoption of the 2015-2019 anti-corruption strategy and action plan which now needs to be implemented through the backing of a proper budget allocation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it urges political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to continue along the path of institutional, economic and social reform that will lead to eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for more efficient, targeted and more carefully monitored use of the european structural and investment funds so as to ensure that these effectively address living costs, social exclusion, housing deprivation, and the insufficient quality of the housing stock. i am also concerned with the gender gaps in remuneration, working hours and duration of working lives that women face during their working lives which, as the report correctly points out, have a direct effect on their lives as pensioners. i also support greater flexibility for access to european funding by anti-poverty associations without adding administrative burdens for them. this should be linked to the active labour market policies aimed at assisting unemployed people to return to the labour market and find dignified jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it highlights the need to close the gap between the union’s social policy and its energy policy, helping citizens across the eu to rise out of poverty while also contributing to achieving our european union energy targets.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the anti-poverty target in the light of increasing household costs, since poverty levels in the union are unacceptably high. the increase in poverty is directly linked to the financial crisis and the subsequent austerity policies. the commission and the member states must make more efforts to reach the anti-poverty targets. minimum income schemes above the 60% national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are essential tools in this respect. financially vulnerable households need better protection against energy poverty and more support to improve their energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the cooperative sector worldwide has about 800 million members in over 100 countries and is estimated to account for more than 100 million jobs around the world. i believe that all partnerships and alliances with the private sector must focus on shared value priorities that align business goals with the eu’s development objectives. in this respect, the eu has a fundamental role as a facilitator and coordinator. we need to strengthen the role of the private sector in implementing the future sustainable development goals, based on the aid effectiveness principle supported through eu added value towards achieving these same goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which assesses the role of the private sector in development overseas. private investment in developing countries, and support for local private sector initiatives, are crucial in the eradication of poverty and stabilising democracy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report since the role of the private sector in development has increased in the last years and is progressively being debated. population and income growth in developing countries is set to drive a growing global middle-class population who will demand significantly higher levels of consumption. furthermore, in the context of aid resources declining and new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector might play a key role since these donors can bring innovation, expertise and effectiveness in development policy. however, the role of the private sector role in development should be well-defined to ensure that there is full accountability and that development goals are not distorted.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i would like to focus in particular on the work of the european union agencies, namely cedefop, etf, eurofound and the agency dealing with health and safety at work. of course, these are important agencies that focus on vocational training, that focus on training systems for countries that are underdeveloped; agencies talking about the important research and analysis work they do and also how to prevent risk, and promote a sustainable and healthy workplace. we must also focus on the report on the implementation of the agencies' budget, which was positive and a sign of financial soundness. but we also need to see that these agencies remain separate, they do not duplicate work, they are doing important work, and we should let them do this work separately. finally, i urge these agencies to take up the recommendations put forward in these reports because i think it is important for the good of the citizens of the european union.
in writing.– hearings before the european parliament for nominees to the eu’s court of auditors are consultative. nominees who receive a negative vote in committee or plenary, can still be appointed if the council of ministers so decides. dr toni abela was nominated this year by the maltese government. he promised that if turned down by the relevant committee of the parliament, he’d withdraw. so he did. i applaud abela for his political integrity. i cannot applaud how his nomination was reviewed. it frequently happens, as with abela, that occult elements organize campaigns to discredit nominees, alleging dishonourable or criminal behaviour. nominees can defend themselves during face to face meetings with members of the committee and during the hearing. in abela’s case, the hearing was short. allegations against him could not be fully clarified. other issues too needed discussion. abela was treated unfairly. if this parliament wishes hearings on nominations to be meaningful, it should reconsider how to conduct them. when allegations of criminal or dishonourable behaviour arise, they should be considered separately by a jury d’honneur, aided by legal counsel, on the basis of facts. the hearing would then concentrate on the personal, professional and political abilities of the nominee.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members, many thanks to cecilia wikström for the very kind words. i would like to recall the importance the presidency attaches to the work on civil law, in particular on family matters and e-justice solutions, and i take this opportunity to thank the chairs of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on petitions, svoboda pavel, and of course my former colleague cecilia wikström. i thank them for coming with these questions and ideas to complement the eu message already in place to protect the best interests of the child in cross-border situations. on adoption: as you know the issue of adoption of children is a matter which is not regulated at eu level but by national laws and by some international conventions, particularly the hague convention of 1993, to which all eu member states are parties. this convention aims at protecting adopted children in their countries, if possible by offering them a home in those countries. it provides for cooperation between the authorities of the different states. the council may adopt measures concerning family law with cross-border implications following article 81.3 of the treaty, including in the field of adoption – but only on the basis of a proposal from the commission. on welfare and child poverty: concerning the issue of the welfare of children, i would like to say a few words on the fight against poverty, which is a complex reality affecting many children unfortunately. the fight against poverty is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and it is also one of the presidency’s priorities. working closely with the social protection committee, the presidency has therefore tabled council conclusions on an integrated approach for combating poverty and social inclusion. in this document, which is to be adopted in june, the council encourages member states to address child poverty and promote children’s wellbeing through integrated strategies in accordance with the commission recommendation ‘investing in children’. the council also invites member states to intensify the exchange of knowledge, experiences and best practices in this field. let me mention in particular the roma children because, yes, we must also continue to address other longstanding challenges in addition to the situation faced by roma children, and i thank the european parliament for keeping this issue on the eu agenda, including on international roma day earlier this month, on 8 april to be precise. as regards mediation, the eu has put in place the 2008 mediation directive, which aims at facilitating access to alternative dispute resolution. it promotes the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and by ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. moreover, the brussels iia regulation foresees mediation as one of the functions of cooperation between central authorities in matters of parental responsibility. there is common understanding in council that the revision of brussels iia is a topic of great importance and, to be honest, it is about time. on e-justice, on improving access to information in the justice field: you know that the e-justice portal was launched in 2010 in collaboration with the commission and the member states. the council’s second action plan on e-justice stresses that information relating to minors should be included in the e-justice portal. a specific expert group is now examining the ways to expand information on minors already available on the portal, and your specific question relating to adoption procedures could indeed be considered in this context. in closing, i wish to say that the council awaits with great interest the commission proposal amending the brussels iia regulation, as this is the cornerstone of eu judicial cooperation in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs (juri) and the committee on petitions (peti) for organising this debate which i very much welcome. as has been said several times already, the brussels iia regulation is an extremely important piece of legislation for many families in europe. it has been applied for ten years and has proved to be very useful, but the time has come to review it. the commission intends to come forward with a proposal late june this year. our assessment is that the brussels iia regulation works overall well with regard to matrimonial matters. we do not envisage, at this stage, the need to revise it in this respect. on the other hand, there is clear evidence for the urgent need to revise the regulation as regards parental responsibility aspects. parliament, better than anyone, is aware of numerous cross-border cases in which the judicial cooperation based on this regulation is not fast enough, to say the least. children end up being hostage of lengthy legal disputes. the mechanisms put in place by the brussels iia regulation have helped in determining parental responsibility or settling child abduction cases, but we have to take additional steps. i intend to further clarify the rules on parental responsibility, to improve the enforcement of judicial decisions, to speed up the procedures and make sure that the best interests of the child are of primary consideration and effectively protected. more concretely we are considering measures on the following aspects. firstly, to speed up the return procedure. there are still far too many child abduction cases in which parents with an enforceable return order are stuck in lengthy proceedings. abducted children must be returned swiftly as passing of time can have irreversible consequences for the relationship with their parents. evidence shows that in those member states with specialised courts the return procedure can be much smoother and quicker. secondly, to see whether the existing exequatur procedure is still needed and to define the grounds for refusal of the enforcement of judgements. it is unacceptable that currently a parent can be left without any possibility to see his or her child for years due to delays in the enforcement of judgments. thirdly, to increase judicial cooperation and mutual trust between member states, for example when it comes to the specificity of family proceedings. fourthly, to smoothen the differences in national rules governing the hearing of the child. too often these rules are invoked to refuse a judgement from another member state. i am convinced that while acknowledging different legal traditions we can – and must – do better to respect the child’s right to be heard. finally, to improve the cooperation between national authorities with responsibility for child protection or parental responsibility matters. we need a strong network of these authorities to help parents in enforcing their parental rights abroad. besides these key changes to the brussels iia regulation, we will also continue our awareness raising activities, targeting also child welfare and consular authorities. this is duly reflected in our funding priorities and calls for proposals. to conclude, let me refer to the aspects related to adoptions. the brussels iia regulation does not cover these aspects. the functioning of child protection and welfare services is governed by national law. the commission has thoroughly examined the numerous petitions concerning adoptions without parental consent that you have recently received. none of them fall into the remit of eu law. however, the commission is contributing to the elaboration of a common understanding of how the rights of the child can best be protected and promoted. for instance, let me point to the ten principles on integrated child protection systems, which were debated in the last european forum on the rights of the child and which are also mentioned in your draft resolution. we will continue to support member states in implementing a child rights—based approach and i know that you also, through dialogue and awareness raising, can have a real impact on improving the situation on this very important matter. i am looking forward to our close cooperation on these files, in the best interest of children and for the benefit of families in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. other we are currently living in a time when more and more families are made up of people born in different countries. in the european union we are talking about hundreds of thousands of such families, who should be supported even when their relationships end. these families see the committee on petitions as an opportunity to make their voices heard. i would therefore like to join cecilia in emphasising the important role played by the committee on petitions on children's rights. as the commissioner and the minister said, we must never give false hopes that we can tackle every problem that comes our way. we must not forget that this is largely a competence of the member states, not the european union. but there are a number of crossborder cases where we can do more to ensure that, amongst others, children's rights are strengthened and protected. this objective should be at the forefront of our political activities. and so, on my own initiative and that of a number of other colleagues, we wanted to open it up to as many members as possible. we all came together to ask the council and the commission about the work being done in this area. that is why, as the committee on petitions, we have also taken the initiative of presenting a resolution by all the groups on a number of points concerning child protection in europe. this is another way in which the committee is giving a voice to those who have submitted petitions to the european parliament. i would like to conclude by appealing to all members of this house to take off our political hats and face the reality before us. there are no compromises when it comes to children. our top priority should be to protect the best interests of the child.
for many families caught up in family disputes, the best interests of the child seem like a myth. protection is there but no one seems to be sure what it is. some of this uncertainty results from the different circumstances surrounding each family dispute, and certainly because each child has an interest that is particular to him or her. as a member of the committee on legal affairs, i am however seriously concerned about the failure of the european union's attempts to bring clarity and certainty to the procedures for determining the best interests of children. however, difficulties often arise from the lack of authorities directly involved in cases such as those of taking and adopting common knowledge, based on common standards. a priority aspect is to integrate into each process measures that sufficiently protect children from the harm caused by family circumstances, including the harm of parental alienation, and being deprived of the effective opportunity to develop a relationship with their own family members.
mr president, a strong digital economy is vital for innovation, growth, jobs and competitiveness – and so are women. recent studies show a decrease in the number of young people, in particular girls and women, studying and choosing careers in ict, and most member states also have a skills gap in this sector. yet member states and the eu look at the digital sector as a socio—economic boost. consequently, member states must recognise that compulsory education is to include a relevant ict education from the earlier stages of education that will enable women and girls to obtain the necessary e-skills to fully participate in socio-economic development, as well as to foster amongst them the understanding that they, too, are contributors to digital innovation and are able to obtain skills for employment in the digital sector. an education policy – be it for compulsory education or in lifelong learning – that provides women and girls with skills to participate and contribute within the digital economy will also bring about further empowerment and continue to break down barriers based on gender.
the security of easy, fast and reliable internet access is one of the main pillars of the digital agenda for europe. it is true that there have been improvements and progress towards ensuring better accessibility to the internet at more competitive prices. however, we still hear complaints from service providers' customers who complain that there is a difference between the advertised and promised speed and the actual one. it is unacceptable that people pay for a mod speed and then the actual speed is one third of that promised. we passed a law to oblige operators to inform consumers about the actual download speed. this is a step in the right direction but we want the commission and the council to ensure that what is on paper is implemented. the internet has become and is crucial to the way we live - many have become dependent on it. i therefore submitted a written declaration for greater consumer protection on the internet. we have succeeded in removing roaming charges from next year, which will then be removed once and for all. now we want to replicate the improvements we have made in this respect as well: internet and service speed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thereby approved the conclusion of the protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the eu and georgia. this will allow croatia to become a party to the agreement given its accession to the european union in july 2013. no other changes will be made to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ it is welcome news that croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the union and third countries before its accession, by means of a protocol to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with an important aviation partner in the caucasus region. it forms part of the union’s external aviation policy framework established by the commission. the current report simply gives consent to conclusion of the protocol: therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important that croatia, as a new member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which concludes a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thereby approved the conclusion of the amending protocol to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and the state of israel. the aim is to include croatia, which joined the eu in july 2013, in the agreement. no other changes will be introduced.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the role of the agreement with israel as a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region. it is an achievement in the process of establishing a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours because it forms part of the union’s external aviation policy framework established by the commission. croatia will also accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries before its accession, by means of a protocol to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important achievement in the process of establishing a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. it forms part of the union’s external aviation policy framework established by the commission. the current report simply gives consent to conclusion of the protocol: therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important that croatia, as a new member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal that concludes a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thereby gave my recommendation for croatia to be included in the convention of 18 december 1997 on cooperation between customs administrations, given croatia’s accession to the eu in july 2013. almost three years after accession croatia needs to be included in all relevant agreements as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ malta was the third european member state to ratify the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union, through a unanimous decision taken by the house of representatives in malta in march 2012. this support entails mutual trust between customs administrations based on genuine cooperation and ensuring that, through mutual support among the member states, we eliminate unlawful practices which impinge negatively on lawful commercial activity. this applies to all of our countries and croatia is no exception.
in writing. ‒ this consultation procedure deals with mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations with the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997. the purpose of the convention is to regulate particular forms of cooperation involving cross-border action for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of certain infringements of both the national legislation of member states and community customs regulations. i supported the report in order to ensure that croatia, with its eu accession, accedes to all relevant conventions as swiftly and smoothly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important that croatia, as a new member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, with the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997. the purpose of the convention is to regulate particular forms of cooperation involving cross-border action for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of certain infringements of both the national legislation of member states and community customs regulations.
in writing. ‒ this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases, i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member state.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish general inspector of road transport for waiver of the immunity of bolesław g. piecha, a member of the european parliament elected to represent a constituency in poland, concerning an offence under article 92a of the code of petty offences of 20 may 1971 in conjunction with article 20(1) of the road traffic act of 20 june 1997. i supported the request for the waiver of immunity since the alleged offence involved exceeding the permitted speed limit in a built-up area.
in writing. ‒ given the freedom of movement and the increasing popularity of mobility within the european union, we need clear, well-defined transnational measures which will help us ensure the safety of children, who are the most vulnerable members of our society. mobility, for example, should create opportunities, not risks – as is often the case with custody, or with parents working abroad while their child stays at home. we should also do our best to prevent situations where children become victims of human trafficking. i also regret that the brussels iia regulation is not being implemented as well as it should be and that there are even some aspects of it which should perhaps be revised. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the ability of citizens residing in the eu to petition the european parliament on various injustices is a right that must be safeguarded – even more so when the petition revolves around people who are highly vulnerable and cannot defend themselves, such as children. this resolution notes that the fact that a large number of petitions received by parliament’s committee on petitions relate to children indicates that there is a major problem with the implementation of the brussels iia regulation. the resolution also highlights the need for all child-protection systems to have transnational and cross-border mechanisms in place to take into account the specificities of cross-borders conflicts, as well as various other issues highlighted through the various petitions received in the petitions committee. because i believe that the best interests of the child must be paramount in all decisions related to childcare issues at all levels, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we see an ever greater number of multinational families in the eu, and children’s rights must be protected even when these marriages break down. we cannot solve everything in this parliament, and we should not claim to be able to, but there are things that we can do. this resolution helps us protect and strengthen the rights of children in the european union and i proudly supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the best interest of the child must be paramount in all eu policy and in all eu legislation, including the revision of brussels iia regulation, related to childcare issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on the european pillar of social rights, following a request by parliament’s committee on employment and social affairs. the creation of a european pillar of social rights was announced during president junker’s state of the union address: the idea is to create a self-standing reference document, of a legal nature, setting out key principles and values shared at eu level. in turn, this could serve as a framework for screening employment and social performance in the light of changing work patterns and societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation with the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights because i am in agreement with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report after its second reading, as it has been sufficiently amended and now outlines clear measures to simplify the regulations, such as that on rail safety. changes will also be made in relation to the european railway agency, inter alia, in order to ensure greater cooperation with the national agencies, to promote the optimisation of procedures and to increase the safety of our cross-border railway services.
in writing. ‒ the improvement of the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other parts of the rail system, as well the simplification of the procedures for approving rolling stock for use across the european rail network, leaves much to be desired. i am not confident enough to vote in favour, considering the lack of sufficient progress in the sector. i would like to see a decisive increase in economies of scale for railway undertakings and manufacturers across the eu, achieved through less bureaucracy, however this should not mean any failure to maintain the current high level of safety, something which the reports seems, in places, to hint at.
in writing. ‒ i voted against rejecting the council position as tabled by efdd. at this point there was no final vote taken at second reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal concerning the eu agency for railways. this is part of the 4th railway package and specifically serves to contribute to the further development and effective functioning of a single european railway area and to limiting technical constraints.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu agency for railways, which would extend the role of the railways agency, in line with the interoperability and safety directives, while also giving it additional new tasks, including promoting standardisation. the agency would be able to delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities on the basis of contractual agreements. the report also puts forward a number of measures to improve the agency’s governance in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, enhancing the independence of appeal boards, evaluation and setting priorities in order to take account of available resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes an update of several directives relating to the railway sector. the aim would be, amongst other things, to improve the efficiency of the railway sector and to better promote it, to improve the coherence of the different national frameworks and to better harmonise them. it will be another step towards achievement of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i want to see more decisive improvements in the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other parts of the rail system, as well as simplification of the procedures for approving rolling stock for use across the european rail network. i support the cutting of administrative costs in order to speed up procedures: however, the plan seems to be that this will come at the expenses of tighter safety procedures for travellers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council position on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which seeks to improve the interoperability of the rail system in the european union. this is a part of the 4th railway package and contributes to improving the technical coherence of national frameworks in the field of rail transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to update interoperability rules in response to the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of tsi (technical specifications for interoperability), simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register. in relation to fixed installations, the european railways agency would be competent to authorise the placing in service of the european rail traffic management system (ertms). national safety authorities would be closely involved in the procedure, as they would verify operational compatibility with the national networks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it outlines good provisions on eliminating the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector and, most importantly, improving the level of safety. measures proposed to achieve this include the issuing of safety certificates, better rules on working, driving and rest periods, and the exchange of information and best practices.
in writing. ‒ i am not satisfied with the progress made on harmonising railway safety rules through mutually recognised safety certification of railway undertakings. the provisions on the tasks and roles of the safety authorities and the investigation of accidents – aiming to discourage member states from continuing to develop their safety rules and standards on national lines and on the basis of national technical and operational concepts – are not satisfactory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal by the efdd group to reject the council position on railway safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this proposal, which will contribute to even safer european railways. this is the final component of the 4th railway package and works towards greater safety – on which many daily commuters, long-distance travellers and commercial transporters rely – by amending existing legislation and by clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved in the rail system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which concerns how oversight of rail safety is organised between national and european bodies. any railway undertaking that wishes to operate on the european network has to apply for a safety certificate. obtaining the certificate is linked to a number of conditions that ensure that the undertaking is capable of following all relevant safety rules. this certificate consists of two parts that were granted by national safety authorities: in future, after a transition period, it would be the european railways agency that will grant a single certificate following a cooperation process with the national safety agencies. the only exception concerns isolated networks that comply with different technical standards. in that case the railway undertaking may choose whether to apply for the certificate at the national or the european level. provisions define the conditions under which member states may adopt national safety rules. these should ensure that national rules are not in breach of european ones and do not create technical barriers to market access. the directive also concerns safety authorisations for infrastructure managers. those will continue to be granted by national authorities except in the case of cross-border infrastructure, for which they will be granted by the european agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it outlines good provisions for the establishment of better, common structures for indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments in the eu. the new regulations should ensure greater accuracy and integrity of the indices, help avoid manipulation of interest rate benchmarks, improve the quality of the input data used and enhance the overall transparency.
in writing. ‒ i support calls to enhance governance systems and standards, particularly for widely used and systemically relevant benchmarks, and to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse. secondly, i see value in enhancing transparency by making more information available to users of all benchmarks so as to allow them to make informed decisions. thirdly, the maintenance, supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks, achieved by applying governance requirements proportionately, are also important, providing a level playing field for all administrators, both those based in the eu and those located in third countries. the degree of risk in certain financial instruments, however, varies and the approach adopted should therefore be tailored to the particular circumstances. this report contributes to a better functioning of the internal market and hence i support it.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to create a regulatory framework for benchmarks used as indices. benchmarks are used for financial transactions and are also the basis for some retail services such as mortgages and credits. the framework ensures proportionality by imposing different requirements for the three categories of benchmarks: critical, significant and non-significant. also, increasingly fewer ex-ante requirements are imposed in respect of non-critical benchmarks. for these overall reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation which will improve the governance of benchmarks produced and used in the eu in financial instruments and will help households in the eu in properly determining the level of mortgage payments. the new rules will also reduce the risk of manipulation of benchmarks, and ensure appropriate supervision of critical benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to create a regulatory framework for benchmarks used as indices. benchmarks are used for financial transactions and are also the basis for some retail services such as mortgages and credits.
in writing. ‒ the legal framework for european structural and investment funds 2014-2020 has introduced ex ante conditionalities for the effective and efficient use of union funds and i look forward to the assessment earmarked for this year in fulfilling the ex-ante conditionalities as a precondition for funding. whatever the outcome it is necessary that we ensure full transparency on the financing of infrastructural projects, including publication of ex ante and ex post assessments of the economic, environmental and social sustainability of projects in the interest of taxpayers. finally i agree with the recommendation that the erasmus+ programme takes on board more small scale projects, which are the core of innovative experiences in all three domains: education, youth and sport and further initiatives are helpful towards improving the quality of education, formal and informal training, and lifelong learning.
in writing. ‒ given that as socialists and democrats we noticed considerable improvements compared to the previous year with regards to achievements and results of the eu budget implementation, i voted in favour of this discharge report. i did not agree with certain amendments which were proposed in the final plenary vote on iter and on the commission providing insufficient information about fines imposed on international financial institutions and hence i voted against them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the eu general budget for the financial year 2014 – european commission and executive agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge 2014 because i am in agreement with the eu general budget of the european commission and executive agencies. however, i have supported amendment 3 to ensure that no eu funds are made available to directly or indirectly support bullfighting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and in favour of closure of the accounts. i also agree with the recommendations for the commission which were included in the report, for example to adopt a better approach on the issue of the so-called ‘revolving doors’ and to improve the allocation and use of community funds.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. no controversies were detected: therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it covers the various special reports produced by the court of auditors, which allow parliament properly to fulfil its role as a discharge authority on the union’s budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the special reports of the court of auditors, which give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. these are a few of the titles considered: ‘europeaid’s evaluation and results’; ‘are the fisheries partnership agreements well managed?’; ‘eu youth guarantee: first steps takenֹ’; ‘are financial instruments a successful […] tool in the rural development area?’; and ‘eu supervision of credit rating agencies’.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean, and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories, with the aim of reducing and eventually eradicating poverty. i voted in favour of granting discharge for the fund but i voted against the political resolution as i did not agree with some of its major points.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it portrays the strong points as well as the shortcomings of the general budget of the european parliament. i am particularly concerned by the transfer of some responsibilities from the administration to members’ offices, by the parliament website which remains complex despite attempts to make it more user-friendly, and by the continued delaying of work on the eastman building which was supposed to be completed by the end of 2014. i hope that the report will help address these issues. i am also glad that the report addressed our current security concerns.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation to grant the president discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2014, and i support it. i would, however, like to transmit the voice of the many eu citizens who appalled at the european union’s excesses. having a eur 130 million travelling charade that once a month sees parliament decamp from belgium to france is creating a negative impact on our work as meps and continues to foster the perception of citizens that the ep is outlandish with its finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report granting discharge to the european parliament for the financial year 2014, as the report recognises that there were no major discrepancies in parliament’s accounts. however, the report notes a number of issues that must be addressed in order to continue to improve the european parliament’s ability to be accountable and transparent. these include stronger accountability with regard to meps’ expenditure. i voted in favour of meps’ publishing their yearly accounts for the sake of total transparency – a concept that has been adopted by partit laburista, of which i am a member.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 with regard to the european parliament, which contains important provisions for increased transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu general budget in respect of the european parliament because i am in agreement with the proposal. the approach of the report is based on the fact that this is a question of institutional procedure, which was agreed by all the political groups for the european election, in order to close the eu communication gap and increase transparency vis-à-vis the union’s citizens. it also increased working relations between the institutions and brought more legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and to postpone granting of the discharge in respect of implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the council still hasn't provided answers to the questionnaire and its secretary-general has decided not to participate in an exchange of views with the cont committee in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i took note of the recommendation to postpone its decision on granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014 and respect it. the small number of errors relating to the calculation of staff costs and some weaknesses in the management of family allowances which were identified need to be overcome.
in writing. ‒ together with the socialists and democrats i voted in favour of not granting discharge for the council for the 6th year since there is lack of transparency and lack of information.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to postpone the discharge regarding the implementation of the eu general budget concerning the european council and council.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii – european council and council
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge because the audit presented by the court of auditors about the accounts of the court of justice was satisfactory and no abuses of funds had been found. the implementation rate was at 99% which is an improvement from the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i note with satisfaction that in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect of the audited topics relating to human resources and procurement for the court of justice of the european union. this is laudable. the productivity of the judicial activity of the court in 2014 with 1691 cases brought before the three courts and 1685 cases completed in that year is also welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the court of justice discharge for 2014 following the court of auditor's report and recommendations. however, alongside my political group i noted with concern the shortage of women in positions of responsibility at the court of justice. according to the court's annual report, less than 36 % of managers in the court of justice are women. however, at the same time 60% of the overall staff are women, leaving a discrepancy when it comes to managerial roles. only 18 % of senior manager posts are occupied by women, thus i voted in favour of amendments which call on the court of justice to correct this imbalance as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the court of justice for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv – court of justice
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and thus to grant discharge to the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the audit performed by an external auditor raised no questions and the budget was implemented in a fair manner. rate of implementation was improved from the previous year and different obligations were fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the improvement in the executions rate with a reduced budget, acknowledging also the crucial role of the court in ensuring better and smarter spending of european funds towards improving the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of union-financed activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of auditors for the financial year 2014 as, aside from the fact that the court’s budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being used on expenditure concerning persons working within the institution, the auditing of the court itself is conducted by an external auditing firm in order to ensure transparency in the process. in their evaluation the external auditors noted that ‘the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the court’.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v – court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ discharge for the implementation of its 2014 budget should be granted to the european economic and social committee and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the european court of auditors had no reservation about the financial transactions of the eesc. it is, however, regrettable that the utilisation rate was low in comparison with the previous years.
in writing. ‒ in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors observed weaknesses at the european economic and social committee in four cases out of the 15 procurement procedures it examined. this is a matter of concern and needs to be addressed effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the economic and social committee following the court of auditors’ positive recommendation following its evaluation of the eesc’s 2014 financial budget.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi – european economic and social committee
in writing. ‒ discharge for the implementation of its 2014 budget should be granted to the committee of regions and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the audit carried out was satisfactory and no major issues were identified. i agree, however, that both the lease expenses and the number of missions generating travel costs are too high and this should be addressed. another worrying issue is the low percentage of women as managers and an improvement should seriously be considered by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation granting the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014; and i support it.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the committee of the regions, the eu’s assembly of local and regional representatives, there were no problems encountered and hence i voted in favour of granting discharge to the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii – committee of the regions
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the budget was implemented without major errors. i also agreed with the rapporteur that the eeas should pay more attention to the diversity of its employees in terms of nationality and gender.
in writing. ‒ it is welcome news to note that the court of auditors has not identified any significant weaknesses in the selected systems and annual activity report, as is the call for seven eu special representatives to be brought more closely into the administrative structure and senior management of the eeas in order to increase interaction and coordination, exploit synergies and ensure cost-effectiveness. further efforts are necessary to exploit synergies and increase coordination to reach the desired aims.
in writing. ‒ together with my group i abstained in the vote related to granting the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2014. in its opinion the european court of auditors stated that the overall level of error in the administrative budget has been estimated at 0.5% and it has not identified any significant weaknesses in the selected systems and annual activity report.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the discharge should be granted to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget year 2014. no major weaknesses were identified by the court of auditors and the utilisation rate was satisfactory. there are some issues that need to be considered such as unused interpretation services. i urge the european ombudsman to resolve them.
in writing. ‒ the number of complaints falling outside the ombudsman’s remit remains very high, especially from citizens of some member states. this is a concern as it indicates that things are amiss at national level in such a way that the eu cannot address them or that there is a gap between the eu and the understanding of the eu by its citizens. this may also be symptomatic of a lack of adequate information transmitted to the citizens. stronger links need to be forged for smooth and regular cooperation with the european network of ombudsmen and national and regional ombudsmen to remedy this problem.
in writing. ‒ the two budgetary authorities when it comes to granting discharge to the eu institutions are the council and parliament. if either of the two budgetary authorities are not satisfied with the way a particular institution would have dealt with expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures in a particular year it can decide not to give this discharge, thus putting the entity in disrepute. in the case of the european ombudsman, none of these issues were raised, therefore i gave support to granting the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii – european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ the results of the audit of the european data protection supervisor were satisfactory and i therefore voted in favour of the discharge. i welcome the improvement on the implementation rate, but it still remains quite low in comparison with the other agencies.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation on the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and i support it.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors found no issues with the expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures of the european data protection supervisor; hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix – european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a fair analysis of the issues shared by all of the agencies, such as budget implementation and internal controls. i particularly welcome the fact that most of the agencies take public consultations very seriously and take into account experts’ opinions. in addition over 80% of the agencies have an ant-fraud strategy which is very promising and i hope that this number will be greater in the future.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the call upon all agencies to strengthen measures that safeguard the independence of their internal and external activities as this will expose better governance of funds. it is disappointing to note that in certain agencies the figures on gender balance in senior management positions are particularly unsatisfactory. to this end i agree that the discharge authority be provided with a detailed report on steps needed to ensure gender balance in senior management across all decentralised agencies.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with the report on the agencies’ discharge for 2014. the findings in general were quite positive: the report points out the important role that agencies play in implementing eu policies, some issues are raised related to better budgetary planning and improvements in communication policies, transparency and visibility. taking into account the generally positive overview, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report takes on board the horizontal issues regarding the financial management and control of 32 agencies. following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to postpone the discharge regarding the implementation of the budget of these agencies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which reiterates the importance of the tasks performed by agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens. the report highlights the importance of the autonomy of the agencies, in particular of the regulatory agencies and those with the function of independent information collection and recalls that the main reason for establishing agencies was for the purpose of making independent technical or scientific assessments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because a discharge should be granted to the agency for cooperation of energy regulators as all its transactions in the year 2014 were legal and regular. as for our recommendations, i sincerely hope that the european school will be established as soon as possible as set out in the seat agreement between the agency and its host state.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation of the report to grant the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and i support this recommendation. the agency should continue to improve the planning and implementation of its annual budget to achieve better results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the agency for cooperation of energy regulators is achieving good results in its area of work and has vital importance on helping to deliver the goals and results of eu energy regulatory policies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the agency for cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which grants the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications discharge in respect of the implementation of the body’s budget for the financial year 2014. its transactions from the year 2014 were legal and did not raise any questions. i welcome the high budget implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ i positively note the introduction of a detailed monthly monitoring procedure which resulted in improved budgetary implementation rates in order to ensure proper implementation of its budget as well as of its annual work programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is achieving good results in the telecommunication area and is helping to deliver the goals and achieving results of eu policies.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and to grant discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union because all its transactions were regular, as confirmed by the european court of auditors. i welcome the centre’s goal to reduce the skills gaps among its employees and the strategies to achieve this and which were already producing good results.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately the year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 79.34 % which represents a decrease of 4.13 % compared to the previous year. i note with interest that the average price per page was reduced by 2 % from 2013 to the second half of 2014, however, the fee per page for "revision" increased by 23 % during the same period. to avoid confusion i support the claim for the centre to provide an update on current fees, deposits and surpluses. it is positive to note that in so far as adaptability of the staff skills and reducing detected skills gaps the analysis of skills possessed by at least two people in each section performed at the end of 2015 shows that the percentage has considerably increased and is equal to 76.50 % compared to 65.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union's 2014 financial budget as the agency is achieving good results in its area and has not been flagged by the european court of auditors which, as per procedure, investigates all eu agencies accounts annually.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i think discharge should be granted to the european centre for the development of vocational training given that all its transactions in the year 2014 were legal and accounted for. cedefop plays a crucial role in the area of vocational training, something which needs to be constantly improved given the problem of skills mismatch in europe. cedefop provides great assistance to the policy makers and is becoming more and more visible to the eu citizen which was reflected in the growing popularity of its website.
in writing. ‒ it is positive to note that budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98.93% while in 2013 the payment appropriations execution rate was at 95.68%. this represents an increase of 3.29% in one year.
in writing. ‒ as one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, cedefop supports development of european vocational education and training (vet) policies and contributes to their implementation. the agency assists the european commission, eu member states and the social partners to develop the right european vet policies. this year, as every year, the european court of auditors inspected the agency’s annual accounts with regards to its budget for 2014. it found no inconsistencies and discrepancies and gave the discharge its green light. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report which recommends that the agency is given discharge for 2014.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because given the regularity and legality of its transactions, discharge should be granted to cepol. additionally, the report rightly points out that the agency still has to implement a whistleblower strategy and rules against the so called ‘revolving doors’.
in writing. ‒ i took note of the recommendation which grants the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support the recommendation. it is however of concern that cepol’s recruitment procedures are still not fully transparent and that the requirements set in respect of professional experience were not always compliant with the implementing rules to the college’s staff regulations. this needs to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college’s budget for the financial year 2014 as in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the college’s annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 given that the accounts of the agency and its financial transactions were all regular and legal. additionally, i welcome the agency's adoption of a confidential safety reporting procedure on whistle-blower information and the policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ t is the agency's vital role to ensure the highest possible level of aviation safety throughout europe. taking note of the tragedies of the disappearance of mh370, the dramatic accident of mh17, the crash of air asia qz8501 and radar interferences over central europe it becomes even more important to ensure that the necessary financial, material and human resources to perform its regulatory and executive tasks successfully are granted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european aviation safety agency has a vital role to play when it comes to ensuring that our planes and flights are safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because discharge should be granted to the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2014 as all its transactions were legal and accounted for. the rate of implementation fairly good, although it could still be improved upon. given the current refugee crisis, i acknowledge the fact that easo will now be faced with more and more responsibilities and i therefore urge the agency to make sure that its budgetary management is as efficient as possible.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european asylum support office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office’s budget for the financial year 2014; and i support it. as a union we experience difficulties in managing the current refugee crisis; which impinges on the tasks of the agency. these are likely to increase further and its budget and staffing levels will need to increase correspondingly. we also need to consider how the office can play a wider role in addressing migration and to make better use of its know how, skills and knowledge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the european asylum support office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014 following a positive opinion from the european court of auditors with regards to the agencies' annual accounts for the financial year 2014. in its report the court of auditors noted that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. this agency is an essential agency for the european union within the context of a common european asylum system and gives crucial support and assistance to assist member states in dealing with the current european humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thereby to grant discharge to the european banking authority for its budget implementation in the year 2014. i particularly welcome eba’s efficiency and high budget implementation rate which has reached 99.81% in the year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i took note of the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european banking authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2014, and support it. more awareness of the conflict-of-interest policy is to be raised among its staff along with a strengthening of integrity and transparency factors even in recruitment procedures and performance reviews.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european banking authority is making good progress and its performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i approve the closure of european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc)’s accounts for the year 2014 which were all legal and satisfactory. i especially welcome ecdc’s improved website and its surveillance atlas of infectious diseases which maps different infectious diseases in a clear and user-friendly manner. i encourage further efforts to increase the centre’s visibility and proximity to the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ during the course of the ebola emergency, well over 100 staff of the centre worked on supporting the union-level response to ebola. i welcome the centre’s flexibility, service-orientation and commitment to scientific excellence that were demonstrated and documented in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre’s budget for the financial year 2014 following recommendations by the european court of auditors after an evaluation of the agencies' yearly accounts. in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre’s annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the accounts of the agency raised no questions and therefore discharge should be granted for the year 2014. i appreciate the agency’s efforts to implement the biocidal products regulation which was particularly difficult due to issues with financing. i encourage the agency to continue paying close attention to any conflicts of interest and keep improving transparency.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation which grants the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014; which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european chemicals agency is an agency which is extremely important for the eu as a whole. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency for the year 2014 as all its transactions were legal and the allocated funds were well spent. i welcome the implementation of the anti-fraud strategy and the policy to manage any arising conflicts of interest. they shall help to further improve the transparency of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i took note of the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and i support it on the basis that the court of auditors deemed that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. i believe that the european environment agency is doing extremely good work when it comes to the protection of the environment in the eu as a whole and also in controlling the environment levels in the different member states.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the european fisheries control agency for the year 2014 given the regularity of its accounts. i acknowledge the importance of the work carried out by the agency in the implementation and monitoring of different eu policies related to fisheries such as the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the initiative of the agency to monitor exceptions to and deviations from the established policies and procedures regardless of the amount concerned, ensuring that those exceptions and deviations are properly justified and documented. i support the recommendation to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge for the year 2014. i believe that the european fisheries control agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. discharge should be granted to the european food safety authority for its accounts for the year 2014 as all the transactions were legal and accounted for. the budget implementation rate of 99.69% was particularly satisfactory. i also welcome the fact that the authority has decided not to accept anonymised interests anymore which will improve transparency and help avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers, the provision of sufficient resources for law enforcement measures. food safety can be better achieved through improved cooperation among member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european food safety authority is an agency which is extremely important in ensuring our food safety. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ due to the satisfactory presentation of all accounts of the institute and the legality of all transactions that had been carried out in the year 2014 discharge should be granted to the european institute for gender equality for the year 2014 and i therefore voted in favour of this report. i also welcome the fact that the institute works in close cooperation with the parliament's femm committee and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ gender equality fosters socio-economic growth that enriches the eu and its member states and is fundamental to development. it is positively noted that the institute achieved 95 % of its planned output.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge for the european institute for gender equality (eige) as aside from the court of auditor's giving the agency's yearly accounts the green light in terms of how the agency handles its expenditure and administrative budgets, it is evident that the agency continues to work towards achieving greater gender equality across the european union. as one of the biggest priorities for the european union, i believe that this agency must be supported and strengthened in order to ensure that both genders have the equal opportunity to succeed within our societies.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to grant discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the year 2014. the authority has reached most of its goals for the year 2014, for example the budget implementation rate of 100%. i also stress the need for the authority to improve its communication with the european parliament on its activities.
in writing. ‒ the authority’s mixed financing arrangement relies heavily on contributions from national competent authorities and is seen as inadequate, inflexible, burdensome and a potential threat to its independence. cognitive of this, the call the commission made in the white paper planned for this quarter and in a legislative proposal to be presented by 2017, to launch a different financing arrangement based on a separate budget line in the budget of the union and on the complete replacement of the contributions from national authorities by fees paid by market participants, deserves strong consideration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures in the last financial year.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2014, because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014;
in writing. ‒ given that the accounts raised no questions and were all legal, discharge should be granted to the european institute of innovation and technology for the year 2014 and i therefore voted in favour of this report. i also welcome the new institute website which improves its visibility and therefore should reach the eu citizens more easily. unfortunately, the budget implementation rate was lower than expected.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation which grants the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute’s budget for the financial year 2014; which i support. it is positive to note that in order to reduce costs and promote best practices in the area of public procurement, the institute participates in a number of inter-institutional procurement procedures of the commission. this helps in maximising the resources of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute’s budget for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court of auditors noted that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which grants discharge to the european medicines agency for the year 2014. its accounts and performance were more than satisfactory. additionally, i welcome the fact that the agency has improved and managed to implement the recommendations of the internal audit service from the year 2013. i regret however that the agency's budget implementation was rather low; especially that it was even lower than in the previous year.
in writing. ‒ every effort is necessary to strengthen procedures and practices aimed at safeguarding the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge process. i share the concerned that, despite the identified weakness in the functioning of pharmacovigilance, the agency launched in march 2014 a pilot project on adaptive licencing, that was endorsed neither by the parliament nor by the council, as implementing adaptive pathways would shift the burden of evidence from pre-marketing to post-marketing, leading to a situation where premature marketing authorisations could become the rule.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european medicines agency (ema) is extremely important for the eu as a whole. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european medicines agency are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the budget implementation of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the year 2014 and as there were no inaccuracies in its accounts discharge should be granted as outlined in the report. however, the centre still needs to adapt its rules on whistle-blowers and the issue of "revolving doors".
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation to grant the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support it. i agree with the call that the agency must adopt binding rules for the protection of whistle-blowers and establish clear rules on "revolving doors".
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving the green light to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the report is based on recommendations by the court of auditors, which stated that it has reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency should be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the year 2014 given that all its accounts were fair and regular. i particularly welcome the measures taken to tackle the problem of late payments which reduced the rate to 1%. i remind that the agency must inform the parliament on its activities and the information it shares with the member states or third parties.
in writing. ‒ the know-how and in-house capabilities of this agency provide it the opportunity to expand its activities and services. this will increase the reach of union regulatory frameworks and safety and environmental standards. it is positive to note the contribution made of maritime safety towards prevention of ship pollution in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. emsa has extremely important work to carry out in ensuring the maritime sector’s safety. the agency is carrying out its work in line with the principle of sharing best practice and support services.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report granting discharge to the european union agency for network and information security because the audit showed that all its transactions were legal. additionally, i would like to congratulate the agency on the adoption of more environmentally friendly policies and strategies to improve cost effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ the annual reports of the agency could play an important role in ensuring compliance with transparency, accountability and integrity. a standard reporting mechanism in their annual report to this effect would enable a better assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to enisa following the green light given to the agency from the court of auditors with regards to their budget for 2014. furthermore, since i believe that the european union agency for network and information security is a crucial element to assure the eu's information security it is imperative that we continue to strengthen this agency.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report given that the audit showed that the accounts of the european railway agency were fair. budget implementation was satisfactory and i especially welcome the introduction of an anti-fraud strategy.
in writing. ‒ there needs to be sufficient resources for law enforcement measures, and also improved cooperation among member states towards ensuring that the safety and interoperability of the european rail system is compliant with the highest possible standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to era since it is important to ensure the smooth running of railways across the eu. in my view the agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority. i especially welcome the actions taken by the authority to tackle the issue of late payments, thanks to which the rate was reduced from 27% to below 1%.
in writing. ‒ it is the authority’s role to promote a common supervisory regime across the internal market thereby ensuring financial stability and a better integrated, more transparent, more efficient and safer financial market. this is essential for investor protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the eu agencies are achieving good results in their many areas of work as is the case with the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and to grant discharge to the european training foundation because all of its transactions in the year 2014 were legal and regular and its budget implementation rate was very high. the work carried out by the agency is crucial for training and education systems in our partner countries and i welcome the agency’s efforts to improve this, especially given the two major crises which marked the year 2014, namely those in ukraine and in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ in light of the increasing number of requests to the european training foundation for its support to union external relations assistance, the foundation needs to be supported with sufficient resources. its activities highlight the relevance of the union as a global actor in this field. 2014 was marked in particular by ongoing political instability in the southern and eastern mediterranean and in eastern europe owing to the crisis in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the report in question deals with granting discharge to the european training foundation in respect of the foundation’s budget for the financial year 2014. the foundation’s annual accounts were reviewed by the court of auditors who found no discrepancies in the foundation’s accounts and stated that the annual accounts could be viewed as reliable and that all transactions were legal and regular. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice based on its accounts which raised no questions after a thorough analysis. the overall performance of the agency was more than satisfactory and i welcome the fact that the agency has managed to sign agreements with both of its host states, estonia and france.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014; and support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge as the agency’s annual audit found no red flags with regards to the agency’s expenditure for 2014. the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. for this reason i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as discharge should be granted to the european agency for safety and health at work. all transactions in the year 2014 were legal and regular. the agency has an important role to play in the area of health and safety at work, especially that it is charged with the implementation of the eu strategic framework on health and safety. i welcome the positive achievements in these priority areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge as i believe that the european agency for safety and health at work has extremely important work to carry out and to ensure safety and health at the workplace.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee on budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i approve the closure of the accounts of the euratom supply agency and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the accounts raised no questions and on top of this the agency was successful in the implementation of appropriate risk management and control strategies.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation granted to the director-general of the euratom supply agency on discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and support services. i believe that eu agencies are achieving good results in their many areas of work as is the case with the euratom supply agency.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as discharge should be granted to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2014. its transactions were fair and raised no questions and the budget implementation rate was high. given that the work of eurofound is particularly relevant to the empl committee in the european parliament i especially welcome the successful conclusion of the key reports which contributed significantly to our work in the areas of social cohesion and mobility.
in writing. ‒ the successful implementation of the foundation’s four-year work programme, particularly the important work performed on the three european surveys: the european quality of life survey, the european working conditions survey and the european company survey,k is to be commended. i support the recommendation for discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge as the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is extremely important for the eu as a whole in order to continuously monitor the living and labour conditions of all eu citizens. as adequate living and labour conditions are essential to an adequate standard of living, and because i firmly believe that everyone deserves at least a basic, adequate standard of living, i voted in favour of the foundation’s discharge for 2014 on the basis of the court of auditors’ recommendations.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the foundation for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the european union’s judicial cooperation unit in respect of the implementation of its budget in the year 2014 because its accounts were fair and all transactions were legal and accounted for. i welcome the efforts made to provide a more comprehensive procurement plan which should increase transparency. i hope that the list of contracts awarded will soon be published on the eurojust website.
in writing. ‒ i took note of the recommendation to grant the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support it. however note that eurojust has not adopted a policy and a practical guide on management and prevention of conflicts of interest, according to the guidelines published by the commission in december 2013. it is therefore pertinent to call on eurojust to urgently comply and to take corrective measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge for the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) as the agency carries out very important work in the eu in the field of judicial cooperation. in its report on the agency’s annual accounts for 2014, the european court of auditors found no misappropriations and noted that the agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ discharge should be granted to the european police office based on the regularity of its transactions, i therefore voted in favour of this report. its budget implementation was very high and showed an improvement in comparison with the year 2013 thanks to the budget monitoring which was also improved.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation which grants the director of the european police office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office’s budget for the financial year 2014; and i support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european police office (europol) which is the eu’s law enforcement agency. this is an essential tool to ensure the security of all eu citizens. europol’s aim is to further assist the eu’s member states in their fight against terrorism and serious international crime, thus assisting as an essential element in the union’s fight against cross-border crime, and serious organised crime.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014. in addition, the court’s report that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 improved significantly and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99.70%, indicating that commitments were made in a timely manner; takes note that the payment appropriations execution rate was 93%, indicating an increase of 2.80% compared to the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights as all of its transactions were legal and transparent and the budget implementation was at 100%. in relation to the year 2014, i particularly welcome the launch of a webpage especially made for children where their rights are outlined and where help can be sought if these rights are broken.
in writing. ‒ the agency carries out very important work related to the basic values upon which the european union is based. its contribution in this regard needs to be recognised and the agency is to be empowered with sufficient resources to better enable it to fulfil its role. i acknowledge the recommendation to grant the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european union’s agency for fundamental rights is an important agency for the functioning of the european union since it provides expert advice to all of the eu institutions and member states on the situation of fundamental rights within europe and helps to ensure that the rights of all those residing within the eu, which are enshrined within the european charter of fundamental rights, are protected and safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014. moreover, budget monitoring efforts of the agency during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100%, which is the same as the previous year, and the payment appropriations execution rate was 69.45%, representing a decrease of 0.82% compared to the previous year;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) as there were no problems regarding its accounts. however, i would like to point out that the agency needs to put greater effort into ensuring transparency, especially in relation to public procurement – all contracts need to be published and there is a lot of room for improvement in this area.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation for granting the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014, and support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) which is an integral part of the functioning of the european union’s migration policies.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of frontex for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014. moreover, considerable improvements were noted in the annual accounts of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because discharge should be granted to the european gnss agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2014 because all its accounts were regular and legal as assured by the court of auditors. i welcome the agency’s efforts to improve its budget management so that the number of carry-overs can be reduced and its transparency increased by publishing cvs and declarations of interest of its senior management.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and support it. there is however the need to improve the ethical framework by better implementing codes of conduct and ethical principles, so as to reinforce a common and effective culture of integrity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and approved the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 following recommendations from the european court of auditors with regards to the agency’s 2014 financial budget. in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency’s annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the budget monitoring efforts by the agency in 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99.84% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 63.16%, representing a decrease of 17.37% compared with the previous year.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014. moreover, the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99.84%, as in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which seeks to postpone the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. unfortunately, there were some reservations about the ex-post audit work and in-kind and cash contributions. more information will need to be provided on these points and some of parliament’s recommendations will need to be taken into account in order for the discharge to be granted.
in writing. ‒ it is stated that financial contributions from artemis member states should amount in total to at least 1.8 times the union’s financial contribution and the in-kind contribution of research and development organisations participating in projects over the duration of the joint undertaking is to be equal to or greater than the contribution of public authorities. i took note of the qualified opinion issued, which is based on the lack of information needed to calculate either a weighted error rate or a residual error rate following the audits, and the invitation for the court to collect additional and necessary documents and information.
in writing. ‒ i voted against postponing the european parliament’s decision on granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014 and the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. however i supported the resolution as a whole regardless of the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against postponing the european parliament decision on granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014. however, i supported the resolution as a whole regardless of the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because discharge should be granted to the clean sky joint undertaking in relation to its budget implementation for the year 2014; the accounts which were assessed are legal and regular. i particularly welcome the publication of the report on the socio-economic impact of the clean sky activities and the cooperation with sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation to grant the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014 to cover action on an important aspect.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport. given that significant progress has been made by clean sky in improving the situation in the past years, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ discharge should be granted to the ecsel joint undertaking for its implementation of the 2014 budget as it was satisfactory and raised no questions in relation to its legality. additionally, i welcome the policy to tackle the issue of conflict of interest, but i do call the joint undertaking to additionally publish the declarations of interests of the members of its governing board in order to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ while supporting the recommendation, i do not put aside the importance of the carrying out of an audit that includes a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the respective year and for previous years, and their results and implementation. there is no clear separation between fp7 and horizon 2020 implementation information due to the fact that no contracts relating to the implementation of horizon 2020 were signed by the end of year 2014 and thus no payments have been made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge for year 2014 for the ecsel joint undertaking since it showed excellent results in its work over the past few years.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because i am in agreement with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because in my opinion the closing of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking is problematic. this is mainly because of the lack of clarity and sufficient information concerning ex-post audits and the joint undertaking’s agreements with the national funding authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the recommendation to postpone the court’s decision on granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014 and i support it. questions regarding the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions, on the grounds that the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities, should be replied to clearly before proceeding with discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against postponing parliament’s decision on granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014 and the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. because i believe in full accountability towards the way the european union’s budget is spent, i voted in favour of temporarily postponing this discharge
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because final accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which grants discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the implementation of its budget for the year 2014. the transactions were accounted for. i especially welcome the published report on the socio-economic impact of its activities and the fact that the joint undertaking has managed to increase its visibility.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of a clear separation between fp7 and horizon 2020 implementation-related information the indicators used may not reveal a real evaluation of performance. therefore i agree with the call for future reports to contain information regarding the execution of the budget under fp7 and horizon 2020 separately.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation in the past year.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to close the accounts of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2014, and i voted in favour. the accounts raised no major questions. i also welcome the increasing involvement of smes in its activities and greater transparency regarding the management of the conflict of interests.
in writing. ‒ i note the recommendation to approve the closure of the accounts of the innovative medicines initiative for the financial year 2014 and support it. regretfully, there is somewhat a lack of information regarding in-kind and cash contributions, and i join the call to include in future reports specific provisions regarding the evaluation procedure and the level of in-kind and cash contributions that are set out separately for fp 7 and horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ the report approves the closure of the accounts of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation of this sector in the past years.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, because the final accounts of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are as annexed to the court of auditors’ report and because i agree with the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to delay the closure of the accounts of this joint undertaking. there is still some information that needs to be provided before this can be done. particularly worrying are the high initial costs of the iter project. these will need to be reanalysed and solutions will need to be provided before the discharge can be granted.
in writing. ‒ the report points out that the amount of the contribution to the construction phase of the project by the joint undertaking is exposed to significant risks emanating mainly from changes in the scope of the project deliverables and delays in the current schedule which was considered to be unrealistic. furthermore, the joint undertaking has not yet adopted all rules implementing the staff regulations and has relied on two transitional measures in order to avoid a legal vacuum.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of postponing the decision on the discharge to the iter joint undertaking; however, i supported the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge on iter; i support the rapporteur’s proposal to postpone the discharge for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy until september. the justification for this is that the long-awaited and much-delayed iter action plan is now scheduled for publication in june 2016. in order to act as an incentive for publication, i support postponing discharge until after this date.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and of the closure of the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the year 2014 as they were in order and did not raise any questions. i do however regret that the report on the socio-economic impact of its activities has not been published yet.
in writing. ‒ sesar plays a vital role in coordinating and implementing research for the pillar project of the single european sky. the year 2014 marked the beginning of the deployment phase of the sesar project. its work is to be commended and supported, however enhanced transparency is to be sought.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking deals specifically with high performing aviation. the report approves the closure of the accounts of this joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge on sesar, because the court of auditors’ report is based on too many general remarks to the detriment of viable, specific ones; therefore calls for an audit with a sharper focus on the annual financial performance, on the implementation status of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the respective year and for previous years) and on the results and their implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it outlines some interesting proposals that could improve the effectiveness of the european central bank. i would particularly encourage the eib to focus on the long-term effects of investment and not only the financial but most importantly the social ones such as quality employment and social inclusion and cohesion. i particularly welcome the support provided by the eib to the small and medium enterprises which are the backbone of our economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the text is coherent and incorporates clear messages for the eib to ensure consistency and complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds; to develop and deploy the necessary comprehensive approach in response to the severe challenges generated by the flow of migrants to europe, including enhanced operations in countries of origin of such flows as well as in countries which border directly on countries of origin; and to prioritise investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity, promote youth employment, innovation and smes.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european investment bank for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pirinski report on the european investment bank, as i believe that the text of the report is very coherent and with clear messages for the eib to ensure consistency and complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds. moreover, the report prioritises investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity, promotes youth employment, innovation and smes, and enhances environmental sustainability and climate action.
in writing. ‒ whereas i strongly oppose and condemn any attacks on schools and hospitals which are among the most vulnerable in war zone, i voted against this resolution because it contained unacceptable references to abortion. although women’s health is of great importance to me, unborn children should not be sacrificed in any situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the fact that over the last few years there have been numerous attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world. these include the latest attacks on doctors without borders health centres in afghanistan, yemen and syria. attacks like these are a direct breach of international humanitarian law and various international binding- conventions. the attacks on hospitals and schools highlight the harrowing realisation that conflicts in these areas have reached a frightening level and are directly attacking and threatening the lives of those who are most vulnerable in society such as the sick, elderly and children. all of these aspects and more must be tackled, therefore i voted in favour of condemning these actions and calling for targeted measures, the establishment of fact-finding missions, judicial mechanisms and more to end these atrocities.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this resolution as despite many positive elements, the final version of the text included unacceptable references to the right to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it outlines good provisions which aim to improve transparency within the different institutions of the european union. i especially welcome the idea of a transparency officer whose role would be to monitor compliance with the regulations and improve the existing practices.
in writing. ‒ public access to documents is essential to ensure compliance with the principles of full transparency, sharing of information with the citizens accurately and in good time. it is our duty to see that decisions are taken as close to citizens as possible to ensure that decision-making takes account adequately of their specific needs. on this basis i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it evaluates the situation within the european union of public access to documents that are of public concern and makes a number of recommendations to ensure greater transparency in this regard in order for parliament and the eu to be more accountable to eu citizens. the report makes recommendations with regard to eu documents such as plenary amendments, the transparency register, delegated acts and international agreements, alongside the management of structural funds, infringement procedures, the transparency of administrative processes and practices. it also requests the commission and calls on the secretary-general of the european parliament to inform parliament about the implementation of the recommendations, while noting with concern that many of the recommendations in the resolution on public access to documents for the years 2011-2013 were not given a proper follow-up by the three institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as it embraces the right to access the documents of the european union’s institutions as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and thereby increases transparency in the entire european policy process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents (rule 116(7)) for the years 2014-2015 because i am in favour of increased public access to documents and the proper implementation of european union law, while remaining pragmatic about the limits of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a robust report with regard to the situation faced by various types of domestic workers throughout the eu. the report calls for stronger safeguards for domestic workers who, in the view of the report, should be given their own recognition and status. millions of eu citizens throughout the european union engage in domestic work; however these people are often vulnerable to precarious work and bad employment conditions. therefore, strong safeguards to protect their labour rights and liberties are essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it highlights some of the key issues concerning the situation of women domestic workers and carers in the eu, while proposing a reasonable and workable solution in the form of a directive. this will help to effectively address the concerns parliament has while encouraging the member states to take action at national level.
in writing. ‒ today 2.5 million people work in the care and domestic work sector in the eu, 88% of them women. they work in public or private institutions, and private homes, without proper recognition or labour rights, and their work is very unevenly regulated across europe. the report calls for recognition of the profession and value of domestic and care work, to reduce undeclared work in the sector and to provide for common rules by introducing a framework for professionalisation and guidelines. it also asks the commission to propose a carers’ leave directive for non-professional carers (mostly family members providing care for the elderly, sick or other dependants). therefore, i fully support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the policymakers to make the best of the opportunities offered to us by digitalisation. it outlines how helpful it can be in promoting women’s empowerment and making their lives easier given the special role that they play as mothers. it stresses the need to perceive digitalisation as an opportunity, not a challenge. among others it seeks to promote solutions such as teleworking which can be very useful, in both short- and long-term, especially for working mothers. i also approve of the rapporteur’s call to increase women’s participation in the ict sector.
in writing. ‒ it is a concern for me that a small minority of women (only 8%) occupy high-skill software engineering positions and to make it worse women are underrepresented in decision-making within this sector. as a legislator i favour initiatives to increase the 19.2% of employees in the ict sector who are in managerial positions. the current situation reflects the need within the member states to introduce age-appropriate and relevant ict education in the early stages of school, with a particular focus on inspiring girls to develop an interest and talent in the digital field. i support the call urging the commission and the members states to promote stem education among girls from a young age, given that girls move away from science, technology subjects, engineering and maths earlier during their educational path due to gender stereotypes surrounding these subjects. as eu ambassador on the digital agenda i am pleased to note that this insistence is widened to include primary education, continuing to move through all stages of education up to adult learning and training for people who have been excluded from the labour market. it is necessary for us to establish endowed professorships for women in ict to create role models for girls and women in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-binding opinion from parliament as it deals with a fundamentally important issue in this day and age. as today’s societies become increasingly digital, it is tantamount that both genders have equal access and equal opportunity in the digital world. this is why i supported this report which urges the commission and the council to fully exploit the potential that the digital age brings within the context of the information society, ict and the internet with regards to the promotion of women’s empowerment, women’s rights and freedoms and gender equality, irrespective of age, disability, genetic features, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, social or ethnic origin, religion or belief or economic status.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as it highlights some of the key challenges women in particular face in the digital age, and provides new suggestions for action in a number of key areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that emphasises the potential that the information society, ict and the internet have to promote women’s empowerment. its influence can help to improve the participation of women in political and other decision-making processes as well as the promotion of gender equality in the labour market. in order to do so, further education and training in ict, investment and funding for female entrepreneurs in ict-related businesses are needed. the report also stresses the need to fight violence against women in the context of a digitalised world, and notes that cyber-bullying, cyber-stalking, trafficking in human beings and hate speech represent a serious threat to women and ultimately, their empowerment.
mr president, the epp group understands that this is a very important issue for all our groups and our citizens. we believe that it is a debate that needs to be had, of course, but it is one that we believe must be had responsibly and extensively. the commission proposal of last week cannot be seen in isolation. it is part of a broader picture that covers the eu-turkey roadmap, the migration statement, and eu visa policy on georgia, ukraine and kosovo. on these issues, the role of this parliament is critical as a player in the co-decision process. these are matters that are controversial and sensitive and we believe that this is all the more reason to make sure that our discussions are well prepared and our procedures are respected. so, in our view, we believe we should allow the relevant committee responsible to deal with this matter and ensure an active discussion while respecting the due process of this house. for example, this evening the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) is going to have an extensive debate on this matter: therefore, the epp group would oppose the addition of this item at this time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the codification procedure should be applied to this regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the eu. no changes will be made to the substance of the regulation but the existing texts will be put together into a single new act.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the scope of the report to eliminate the trade-distorting effects of injurious subsidisation and to restore effective competition. it is necessary to provide for the possibility for the commission to request member states to supply, subject to confidentiality rules, information to be used for monitoring price undertakings and verifying the level of effectiveness of the measures in force.
in writing. ‒ i supported this codification as it provides clearer rules on the protection of european enterprises against unfair business practices and does not unduly change the substance of the existing regulations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the eu because this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ the report approves the codification procedure for the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the eu and i voted in favour of it because the submitted proposal does not aim to make any changes to the substance of the texts.
in writing. ‒ it is established that a product is to be considered as being dumped if its export price to the european union is less than a comparable price for a like product, in the ordinary course of trade, as established for the exporting country. procedures to eliminate dumping and injury are needed to enable a level playing field of european businesses so as to do away with anti-competitive behaviour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this codification of existing regulations which serves to create a level playing field for enterprises in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the eu because this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and thereby gave my consent for the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and liberia. the aim of the agreement is to increase our cooperation with liberia in the area of fisheries. it outlines similar goals to those of the european common fisheries policy and includes measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. through this agreement the european union will also gain fishing rights to a wide range of fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ this report should be placed within a framework of a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with ‘third countries’. through these agreements the eu provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights to a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country’s exclusive economic zone. it is important that the overall objectives of such agreements includes sustainable exploitation and not merely exploitation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement. the agreement strengthens the cooperation between the european union, liberia and the west african region as a whole, as well as facilitating further action to combat illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between eu and liberia, which is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) between the eu and liberia. this agreement will reinforce cooperation, in particular in the fight against iuu fishing, and help the country to improve its fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance capacity, as well as enhance scientific cooperation and promote the development of its fishing sector. it is also essential that this agreement is expected to contribute to liberia's recovery after extremely difficult years of conflict and civil war, political and economic instability, and the recent ebola crisis. the agreement and protocol are in line with the reformed cfp and ensure that the fishing activities of eu vessels in liberian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights. this sfpa further expands the eu's network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement. it will allow eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a further four years. the protocol also introduces improvements to the previous agreement such as priority access for the european fleet, better cost/benefit ratio and greater stability and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the current partnership agreement came into force in 2006 and was renewed for a period of two years in 2012, expiring at the end of 2014. the council’s decision to conclude a protocol for a period of four years will ensure that there will be better use of quotas and is designed to strengthen mutual trust and non-discrimination for the european vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this fisheries agreement, as it follows a succession of agreements between the european union and mauritania ensuring stability for the fishing industry and guaranteeing more durable conservation and management of resources.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the agreement and protocol as it is in line with the reformed cfp and ensures that the fishing activities of eu vessels in mauritanian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights. the new protocol represents a major step forward by comparison with the previous one, and the new commitments given by mauritania in relation to transparency and priority access for the european fleet are welcome, particularly bearing in mind the bitter experience of previous years, when mauritania opened up to foreign fleets at the same time as it denied access for the european fleet. the agreement with mauritania should serve as an example for future agreements signed by the european union with other third countries. it is the most significant protocol currently signed by the european union with a third country. the duration has been increased to four years which will ensure greater stability for the fleet fishing in mauritanian waters.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the gnss agreement with the republic of korea by voting in favour of this report. south korea is our strategic partner and i am glad that this agreement will help us enhance our cooperation in the area that of civil global satellite navigation.
in writing. ‒ korea is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. it is therefore important that agreed procedures are set in place so as to ensure that common requirements are fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ i supported the cooperation agreement with korea as it strengthens the european galileo-project and provides new opportunities in the field of scientific research and training as well as industrial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld) are two new tools in cohesion policy which aim to help better invest the funds available under eu cohesion policies. these are both of great importance as territorial cohesion is one of the objectives of the european union and it aims to increase competitiveness and contribute to sustainable development. clld is particularly promising as it is based on a bottom-up approach and therefore strengthens the local actors. the report also rightly stresses the crucial role played by the local actors in eu cohesion policies and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ there is a learning curve that several member states are going through based on the experience of implementing leader and equal in particular, in previous funding periods. progress has been registered on the leader approach which has led to an exponential increase in local action groups, providing opportunities for community organisations within rural areas to improve the quality of life of the population. however, at the same time, a quicker pace of establishment of these groups by the member states is needed since there are several locality organisations which are seeking support. in this regard, it is important for procedures and conditions of implementation to be simplified, not least through the establishment of the high level group of independent experts on monitoring simplification for beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds and the commission’s efforts in the field of better regulation. this would maximise the potential of lags to reflect a bottom-up approach adopted in decision making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides expertise concerning the tools applied in the eu’s cohesion policy, allowing us to implement this policy more effectively and successfully.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy 2014-2020 because i am in agreement with the report as it makes reference to small cities and the need to take into account the territorial dimension and specific needs. the reference to small cities is important since this reflects the riga declaration which requires that cities are not generalised but categorised by their size and context. for this reason, i have supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the regulation on community statistics should be updated to take into account the recent developments. it is particularly important that the new proposal aims to further strengthen transparency and to increase inter-institutional cooperation. it also promises improved accessibility of the eurostat website and user-friendliness is crucial for all european union websites to ensure proximity to the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ foreign direct investment statistics are part of the overall eu framework aimed at monitoring the economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics is instrumental for monitoring key features such as the developments regarding current accounts and financial flows within and beyond the eu. given that so far this information is only required on a net basis (investment in the country minus investment abroad), which hampers the analytical value of the reported information, it is a concern that some statistics may not adequately reflect the comparative state of play amongst the countries and hence provide a distorted picture of fdi in europe. the report seeks to build on the current situation by compiling the main headings, by following the ‘ultimate host/investor country’ approach to identify the host country of the direct investment enterprise for outward fdi and the home country of the direct investor for inward fdi as defined in the oecd benchmark definition of fdi.
in writing. ‒ i support this amendment to the regulation concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. the production of reliable statistics is of major importance in monitoring economic developments. furthermore it improves transparency, and aligns this regulation with the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, since bad quality statistics played an important role in the 2008 financial crisis and therefore it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ considering that part of my constituency is gozo, an island within an island nation – malta – which is however not mountainous, i deem fit to underline common challenges which are mentioned in the report. i attribute importance to year-round sustainable tourism, which can create jobs and diversified content in those areas while helping tackle the problem of depopulation and the lack of generational renewal in those regions. taking account of the call made by the report supporting the commission in proposing a european year of islands and mountains, i would like to emphasise that not all island regions in the eu are mountainous, therefore due consideration should be attributed nonetheless to their specificities, too. due to diseconomies of scale, which frequently affect prosperity in such regions, i agree that it is important to develop policies for broadband access and therefore support the call for the commission to develop specific policies for overcoming the digital divide in these regions.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution that draws attention to an important component of the union’s cohesion policy. by providing a more generally applicable definition of mountainous regions we can more easily contribute to a holistic approach to mountains, properly take into account the characteristics of these regions and sustainably further develop these parts of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change. the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion within less developed mountainous regions can be reduced with the help of eu funds. mountainous regions can also be a leading force in sustainable growth within the eu, as centres of green growth. on the other hand, this report calls for an agenda for eu mountainous regions and the consideration of the mountain dimension within future programmes and policies of the eu, especially within the esif.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate, which i believe has been fruitful and useful. of course, it is more than difficult to answer you, since there were so many different points of view. i would like to point out that mistakes have been made and that there is a responsibility to be shown. we cannot go through six years of crisis without seeing these shortcomings of all kinds. i happen to have a bit of a background on these cases, not only the background of the year and a half i have just spent in the commission in charge of this matter, in the college of commissioners, but also before that as i was already a member of the eurogroup as minister for the economy and finance of my home country - which is still my country - france. so i have been participating in these discussions for four years now. and i can assure you that in reality, the responsibility is shared. the mistakes were made at all times, and basically by all greek governments. i think that the moment we are in is a very decisive moment which should nevertheless encourage us to express a consensus on the need to continue solidarity with greece, whose efforts are recognized by everyone. first, let's have a little common sense. it is not for anyone here to say for the greek people whether they wish to remain in the euro area or not. evidently so. the choices made today, above all without any partial consideration, are a testimony to this long-term ambition. my conviction, and that of all the members of the eurogroup - and by definition, these are men and women from almost all the groups present here and who therefore have different political sensibilities - is that we have reached an important milestone yesterday after a lot of work. this is the stage of a solid reform programme which is now under way, which is accepted by all and which must be the basis for a return of confidence and growth in greece with the investment that follows. this is what the greek people, who have suffered so much in this crisis, need. we owe this consensus to the greek people. i am not talking about this or that political group, i am not talking about the authorities, although i would like to say how well we have worked in recent months with the authorities to get these reforms through, which are difficult reforms. i think your debate also provides us with some interesting ideas for the eurogroup meeting on 24 may. we have taken careful note of the comments of the members and the points that have been raised today. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the question of the future of the community. first, the question of structural reforms. there is an ambitious package, and then there is a contingency mechanism to protect against the risks which, once again, the commission believes it can avoid. finally, this is the first time since november 2012 and especially because there is a package of reforms on the table today that is solid and credible that we are able to deal with the greek debt issue. we're going to do it and we want to do it. i therefore believe that an important step was taken yesterday. i hope that on 24 may we will be able to reach as broad an agreement as possible, at least on the first two blocks and, if possible, on all the issues. i heard speakers from various countries who had experienced programmes or who wanted greece to do the same. that's my wish too. in the last four years i have had to attend seventy, seventy or even eighty eurogroup meetings and my wish is that one day at a eurogroup meeting we will be able to say: 'that's it, greece is out of the programme'. after all, this is a normal country, a country that has achieved the reforms that have allowed it to grow again. i think that beyond the different political sensibilities that may inhabit us, it is a wish that we can all share. i think he's the one who's driving all of you and i feel the same way you do.
in writing. – despite all the flowery rhetoric we are subjected to, about european solidarity and what have you, the so-called economic adjustment programmes for greece have become a hypocritical sham. the truth is that the process is driven by casuistic calculation based on the application of self-serving economic and financial positivism. the process remains detached from the hardship and suffering that millions are having to endure. it is true that those who over-borrow have to pay for their mistakes, but there comes a time when a line must be drawn under their liabilities. for it is also true that those who over-lend should also have to pay for their mistake: that is the logic of the free market. in the case of greece, those who over-lent have been let off almost scot-free. we are now having to support a policy in which a people that has been subjected to years of austerity is being forced to accept the prospect of having to carry further burdens. the way forward can only be substantial debt relief. most actors in this miserable scenario subscribe to the dogma that eurozone membership is irreversible. they should be prepared to pay in order to safeguard that dogma.
madam president, development policy is key in achieving a more inclusive and peaceful world by uniting global efforts to improve people’s lives worldwide and eradicate poverty. the eu is the world’s largest provider of development and humanitarian assistance, and with the adoption of agenda 2030 last september in new york we all committed to the implementation of the new sustainable development goals. but how is this assistance being utilised? as the situation in europe has deteriorated dramatically, i think that the new sustainable development goals should take a step further and adopt strong objectives to reflect the enormity of the crisis, while addressing the root causes of migration in the countries of origin. we want to make sure that the funds achieve their purpose: to build sustainable economies, health services and educational facilities, create jobs and give a future to people in their own countries. we need to ensure that the new approach to migration is a top priority in the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to extend the existing exemptions for commodity dealers as set out in the capital requirements regulation. it will be better to extend these until a review of the framework applicable to investment firms is prepared, adopted and applied.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal provides a clear and feasible plan concerning the review of the current exemption of certain requirements for commodity dealers, and delivers a realistic timeframe for the implementation for a new set of rules. therefore i supported this report that also seeks to minimise unnecessary burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards exemptions for commodity dealers, which calls to undertake a single review on an appropriate regime for commodity dealers as well as for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general (henceforth ‘investment firms review’) and prepare a single report on the above topics. this was deemed necessary in order to ensure the development of a coherent prudential framework for all types of investment firms.
in writing. ‒ it was agreed today that the powers of the european police office (europol) should be significantly strengthened. i believe that europol needs be strengthened in such uncertain times when we face threats such as extremism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it includes further data protection safeguards for the union’s citizens as well as enhancing europol’s capacity to rapidly respond to terrorist threats and organised crime gangs. it is essential that we, as legislators, demonstrate our commitment to ensuring the security of the union as well as protecting our freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the final agreement reached on the regulation ‘lisbonises’ europol, which should provide for a legal framework by replacing europol as established by the council decision 2009/371/jha establishing the european police office (europol), and cepol as established by council decision 2005/681/jha establishing the european police college (cepol). in this process cepol was separated and has now its own instrument. this lisbonisation meant that the europol structure needed reforming, including its overall functioning, governance, supervision, data protection regime and its relations with third countries and international organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for educational purposes. i am confident that whilst the proposal clarifies and improves the rules for entry of such individuals, it will help young people come to europe to discover our culture and gain valuable experiences.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i believe that allowing member states to reject an application only on a case-by-case basis and taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality on the basis of evidence or serious objective reasons is appropriate, however, such should nonetheless be regulated within a general framework of harmonised rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as it seeks to establish a clear set of rules for member states when it comes to assessing applications for entry and residence of third-country nationals for purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary service, pupil exchange schemes or educational projects and au pairing.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, pupil exchange and au paring because at a time of negative news stories concerning migration, this directive is a welcome step forward with regard to legal migration for students, researchers and other groups of young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it outlines many relevant issues on the implementation of cohesion policy. in particular i believe that better use needs to be made of the structural and investment funds and that the european commission needs to pay greater attention to the assessment of their implementation. i also welcome the establishment of the task force for better implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes in some member states and i hope it will help them significantly to increase the rate of absorption of funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it includes suggestions for the facilitation of the exchange of best practices amongst member states regarding the decentralisation in the control of european structural and investment funds. this would improve the implementation of projects as well as improve regional and local actor interaction with the union. it also calls for improved communication with citizens regarding the implementation of the cohesion policy in order to improve awareness of its significance and impact.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the acceleration of implementation of eu cohesion policy because the budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020 represents in some member states the main source of public investments. objectives of enhancing growth and job creation can be achieved through a coherent interaction within the eu economic policy mix of structural reforms and growth enhancing investment, all supported and accelerated by cohesion policy investments.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, until we are able to build peace and prospects for war-ravaged and persecuted communities in our neighbourhood and beyond, people will continue to look to the eu for refuge. we need to make sure that people who need protection actually receive it. this is our moral duty as well as our legal responsibility. and we must find ways to help these people without them having to risk their lives on dangerous journeys. we need to take them out of the hands of smugglers by putting in place safe and legal ways to the eu for those in need of protection. cooperation with third countries, protection in the region and resettlement from there to the eu should become the model for the future. we will come forward in june with proposals on how to work better with third countries as part of our work towards a more sustainable approach to managing migration. recent experience also shows that we need a better approach to large-scale arrivals of people at our external borders. those who do not seek protection should be returned. those who do claim asylum should have their case processed efficiently and get a decent reception. but we have seen how our existing european asylum rules are not doing that. we all know the weaknesses. in the past year a few member states came under incredible strain. this results directly from the shortcomings of the dublin system in its current form. dublin was simply not designed to deal with situations such as these. it does not deliver effective solutions and it does not ensure solidarity and a sustainable sharing of responsibility. a month ago we presented options for reforming our common european asylum system and we heard your reactions as well as those of the member states in the council. the simple truth is that, if member states do not find a common approach to sharing the responsibility in handling the refugee crisis, at the end of the day not a single member state will be able to handle that responsibility on its own. we either face this challenge together, or we give up on facing it at all, with dire consequences for all and with unacceptable consequences for refugees who flee war and persecution. if we take leave of our common responsibility, we will take leave of our common values and weaken the very fabric upon which our societies are built. that is why the commission has presented a proposal that will make it possible for all member states to take their responsibility. so we propose to introduce a corrective mechanism in our dublin system. it will be triggered automatically so that, whenever a member state has to face a disproportionate number of asylum applications, responsibility for new applicants – of all nationalities – will be transferred to other member states. once the pressure is relieved, that member state will again take responsibility for new applicants. each member state’s share will be based on clear and simple criteria – population size and gdp. their resettlement efforts will also be taken into account, in line with our objective to provide safe and legal pathways to europe. all member states will be required to contribute and show solidarity. this may, under conditions, also take the form of financial solidarity. if – temporarily – a member state does not relocate asylum applicants, they will need to support those member states which do. the new system will also be much more efficient and fairer with shorter processes for assigning responsibility and processing applications. it will discourage abuses, with clear obligations for applicants and safeguards against ‘asylum shopping’. at the same time, we will better protect the rights of those who seek refuge through better safeguards for unaccompanied minors and stronger guarantees that families will be kept together. i trust this house to examine our proposals with the urgency this issue merits. mr president, if you agree, commissioner avramopoulos will continue.
member of the commission.– mr president, i will go straight to the core of the issues. we know the weak points in our current asylum system, and the smugglers know them, too. to address them, we started last year to strengthen the control at our external borders with our proposal on the european border and coast guard. i am glad that the discussion progresses well, but, as you have indicated in your report on the holistic approach to migration, europe also needs to set up a robust and effective common european asylum system. the reform of the dublin regulation, the reinforcement of eurodac and the transformation of easo into a true european agency for asylum, are the first major steps in this direction. these proposals are all based on the same principles: solidarity, responsibility and pragmatism. we cannot abandon any member state to face a crisis alone. a country’s place on the map should not decide its share of the work. i am convinced that our proposal to reform the dublin system strikes the right balance to achieve two objectives. first, our proposal will allow establishing a sustainable and fair system for determining the member state responsible for asylum seekers. it is based on a european reference system, with an automatically—triggered corrective solidarity mechanism. once the number of asylum applications in a member state exceeds 150% of the allocated share based on gdp and population, the corrective mechanism will be automatically triggered. all new admissible applications will then be shared proportionately between the other member states which are below their share, based on the reference key. the objective is to avoid that a member state carries a disproportionate burden. second, the new dublin regulation will better prevent secondary movements within the european union. the current shifts of responsibility between member states will no longer be possible. it is important to see the dublin regulation as part of a package together with the reform of easo and of eurodac. indeed, the existing european asylum support office (easo) will be transformed into a fully-fledged asylum agency. the tasks of the agency will be considerably expanded. one of its other essential tasks will be to ensure greater convergence in the assessment of applications for international protection across the union. and, as we have proposed for the european border and coast guard agency, we see the clear need to strengthen its operational role when needed. therefore, we suggest a reserve of 500 experts from member states to be available when needed in urgencies, if a member state is subject to disproportionate pressure and needs support. finally, the reinforced eurodac regulation will continue to support the application of the dublin system. the new regulation includes the possibility for member states to store and search data belonging to third country nationals or stateless persons who are irregularly staying in the union. this will facilitate their identification and therefore the enforcement of return decisions in line with data protection standards. these are only the first proposals for the reform of the common european asylum system. we are now working on a second stage of legislative proposals towards achieving more convergence in the asylum procedure and the rights we need to grant to those in need. in addition, we are working towards increasing the legal avenues to europe, and we will come up soon with a structural resettlement scheme. as president juncker said in this plenary in april, we want to build a common european asylum system that is the best in the world – and i have full confidence that this house will help us to build a fairer, more equitable and more sustainable system that europe needs and will need in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioners for their detailed presentations and for their constant leadership in trying to address the crisis in very tough circumstances. your proposals, commissioners, contain a number of very good elements and show some clear progress in addressing the issue. strengthening the malta—based easo is essential and i am pleased that the proposals contain concrete measures in this regard which will see staff and resources increased. we need to keep proving to our citizens that there is an understanding among politicians in brussels that member states on the front line should not have to face disproportionate pressure on their systems alone. this is crucial, and any change to our systems must have this as its central theme. the commission’s idea for a corrective fairness mechanism is a good step in the right direction in addressing this concern and will go some way to pushing forward a sustainable solution to disproportionate pressures faced at the external borders. however, i think that the commission’s idea for member states to be able to pay their way out of the mechanism is provocative, and it does show just exactly how far away member states still are from real sharing of responsibility. i can perhaps sympathise with the thinking behind the idea, but that some countries will be able to exonerate themselves from responsibility by payment is not, in my view, the best road towards effective solidarity. we need to do more to ensure that there is the political will to move forward. overhauling dublin is essential. it is a system that has perpetuated a disproportionate responsibility on some member states which feel left alone. it has poisoned the debate on migration and has allowed extremist elements to hijack the narrative. it must be changed. solidarity must be part and parcel of being an eu member state. it can never be a concept we can buy our way out of. the bottom line is this: we are either all in this together, or we are not.
member of the commission. – madam president, at the very heart of the commission’s work programme for 2016 we focus on two mutually reinforcing priorities: more job-related growth and enhanced social convergence. for the return to robust and sustainable growth, we have proposed action on two fronts: firstly, investment in europe’s sources of jobs and growth, and secondly, the completion of the european economic and monetary union to create the conditions for lasting recovery. president juncker’s eur 315 billion investment plan will reach its stride in 2016 and then, combined with european union funding instruments, it will deliver to citizens in almost all walks of life. this will accrue in parallel with an upgrade in the investment climate, thanks to the digital single market, the single market strategy, the energy union and the capital market union. moreover, central to the five presidents’ report on completing the european monetary union is the idea that fair, well-functioning labour markets and welfare systems are vital to the success of the european monetary union and are part of a broader convergence process towards more resilient economic structures within the euro area. to this end, the commission is delivering on upward social convergence through the european pillar of social rights, as well as a number of targeted initiatives outlined in the commission work programme for 2016. the aim of the pillar is to foster convergence by setting up a number of essential principles to support well-functioning labour markets and social protection systems within the euro area, thereby contributing to efforts to achieve for europe a social triple—a rating. the pillar will build on and compliment the acquis in order to guide policies in a number of fields. the pillar should become a reference framework to screen employment and the social performance of participating member states and to drive for reforms at national level. the commission put forward a first preliminary outline of the european pillar of social rights on 8 march. public consultation is open until 31 december. the results will inform the final proposal to represent it early in 2017. between now and the end of the year, the commission is actively engaging with other institutions, national authorities and all kinds of stakeholder at eu and national levels to discuss and get their opinion on the pillar. social partners have been invited to play an active role in shaping the pillar. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states are primarily competent for their employment and social policy. action at eu level is needed in order to promote greater social progress and cohesion and to conceive social policy as a productive factor which reduces inequality, maximizes job creation and allows europe’s human capital to thrive. indeed, we need to screen whether the european social model is still fit for purpose. we are confronted with long—term challenges like globalisation, an ageing society and changing work patterns. we are also still confronted with the aftermath of the crisis and the great divergence in employment and social outcomes between euro zone countries and a divergence which is a threat to its long—term sustainability. in order to achieve upward social convergence, these challenges need to be confronted and met head—on. the commission work programme for 2016 contains concrete initiatives to address inequalities. the forthcoming skills agenda will focus on skills as an innovator to employability, as well as creating the right environment to allow skills to drive competitiveness and fair and balanced growth. moreover, it will set out actions for a reinforced engagement with businesses and for a shared commitment to deliver a skills rich europe. the commission’s proposal to revise the posting of workers directive aims to ensure equal remuneration between posted workers and national workers. the preparation of the fresh start to the work/life balance will aim to fight inequality between men and women on the labour market, equipping the european union with a legal and policy framework to allow parents and carers to better and more fairly balance their work and carry out their responsibilities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, europe is once again facing huge societal challenges. the current commission has made it important to see that it is the most political imperative to bring back more social fairness in europe and to reconnect with the social dimension of our union. the european commission is working to achieve a social triple—a for europe, and this provides a number of challenges in a world where low—income families are on the rise. different studies are showing us that when poverty reaches the middle classes it can hamper growth and weaken social cohesion by limiting opportunities, not only for the most deprived sections of our society, but also those at risk of exclusion from the decent living bracket. no-one needs to be left behind when we formulate new policies, and we need to invest more in our citizens. this is particularly important because jobless households with children are facing a lot of difficulties. we need to create employment opportunities in order to avoid the inter-generational transmission of poverty and social exclusion, with particular emphasis on pre-schoolers. i believe that upward social convergence is important for a sustainable model social europe, and this needs to be reflected in our policies in order to address the current challenges which persist in many member states.
as mentioned, parental leave is essential to achieve equality in the workplace, and to enable parents to reconcile family and work responsibilities. the decision to take parental leave is a decision taken by the parents alone, but we politicians can pave the way to make this choice more feasible and realistic. we recognise the crucial role that mothers and fathers play within our society, and we should support initiatives that increase women's participation in the world of work, by addressing barriers to creating a better work-life balance, for the benefit of both parents and business. the framework of the agreement on parental leave should help to encourage the equal sharing of family responsibilities between men and women. i believe that member countries should work towards greater convergence in terms of sharing best practice in the area of work-life balance, with a particular focus on policies to help mothers enter the world of work, return to the world of work, and for fathers to participate more in family life and to concentrate on their working life. but legislative measures alone are not enough and so we must do much more.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends introduction of a number of amendments to the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. this will help us deal more effectively with tax evasion and fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as its main goal is to tackle the problem of tax fraud and evasion. the proposal is aimed at multinational enterprises with revenues equal to or over eur 750 million to submit country-by country reports, therefore smes will not be adversely affected or overburdened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, which overall is a positive step in the fight against unfair tax practices and aggressive corporate tax planning. the report should enhance tax transparency by obliging big multinational firms with total consolidated revenues of €750 million or more to file a country-by-country report in the eu member state in which the ultimate parent entity of the group is resident for tax purposes.
in writing. ‒ luxleaks, swiss leaks and now the panama papers scandal have highlighted the need for much greater transparency in reporting on profits, fund formations and transfers across frontiers, and tax liabilities by companies large and small, as well as individuals. i support all measures meant to ensure this transparency. such measures must fully respect the need to allow a wide legitimate space for the financial services industry to function effectively, as well as the need for european corporations to compete on global markets against players which do not play by european rules. nevertheless, transparency measures should not serve as a pretext to introduce tax harmonisation or to reduce the sovereignty of eu member states in organising their taxation systems in line with their endowments. the latter point is especially crucial for smaller, peripheral economies in the eu system which have seen their flexibility eroded over the years by rules applied in a one-size-fits-all mode on a continental basis. i am sure that robust systems that combat tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, money laundering and related issues can be set up on a european basis, and globally, while respecting the above principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the fishery products should be more traceable than they have been until now. consumers should be able to know the origin of the food they are eating, especially given that most of such products come from outside the european union.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world’s largest seafood market, which is supplied by both the eu fisheries sector and imports from third countries. it is worrying to note that significant levels of mislabelling on fish products sold on the eu market, including in the restaurants of the eu institutions are in breach of eu regulations. such may constitute a criminal offence under national law. i support the call towards creating a working group to harmonise the implementation of traceability in all member states and the setting-up of an external structure enabling the certification of voluntary claims for fishery and aquaculture products on the eu market. consumers should be assured that there is adequate traceability from landing to consumption, which would give them confidence, together with an effective awareness-raising campaign on labelling requirements for fishery and aquaculture products. for this reason, i agree that an eu-wide ecolabel for fisheries and aquaculture products criteria should be further discussed at eu level within the context of fisheries and maritime policy.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as european consumers have a right to receive understandable, verifiable and accurate information on the origin of their food.
in writing. ‒ a strong traceability system, from landing to consumption, would give consumers confidence and strengthen the eu market. fraudulent mislabelling constitutes a clear breach of cfp rules and misleads consumers, represents a threat to marine resources as well as consumer health, disadvantages honest producers and distorts (fair) competition. therefore, i support the report on traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail which calls on the commission to assess the benefits of setting up an eu-wide labelling system to ensure transparency and credibility of the certification process and provide understandable, verifiable and accurate information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which was adopted on thursday as i believe that china should not be granted market economy status since it does not as yet fulfil the relevant criteria. i nevertheless agree that china remains one of the most important eu partners and this decision does not make it less so.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that eu industries are protected from unfair trading practices. china as yet does not fulfil all of the necessary criteria to be considered as having this status and i therefore supported this cross-party resolution.
in writing. ‒ until china fulfils the eu’s criteria for market economy status, its exports to the eu must be treated with caution. the commission should assess whether china’s costs and prices are market-based, so as to ensure a level playing field for eu industry and protect eu jobs. the commission needs to listen to the concerns of eu industry, trade unions and stakeholders, about the possible consequences for jobs, the environment and economic growth in the eu. therefore, i have voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am concerned that the foreign affairs council has still not adopted any common eu position ahead of the high-level political forum on sustainable development meeting in july. this should be published as soon as possible ahead of this extremely important meeting. relevant directorates-general and the european external action service should also be involved in the integration of the 2030 agenda in the forthcoming review of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for more coherence between the eu’s policies and closer cooperation between the different partners when it comes to reaching the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of play of the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals because the development policy is a key in achieving a more inclusive and peaceful world by uniting global efforts to improve people’s lives worldwide and eradicate poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because i agree that the measures outlined in it involved a concept of ‘lightly-processed’ which is impossible to define and its introduction could create many problems for the entire industry. i believe that it would also have a very negative impact on farmers and the small and medium enterprises which are the backbone of our economy.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the mandatory call for indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for types of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat, milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, unprocessed foods, single ingredient products and ingredients that represent more than 50% of a food. it makes sense that the indication of the country of origin or the place of provenance shall be mandatory where failure to indicate this might mislead the consumer. i agree with the call upon the commission to submit legislative proposals making the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods mandatory in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers in the wake of scandals and other cases of food fraud.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this resolution as it would leave farmers and small scale agricultural producers with yet more unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the current situation regarding parental leave needs to be adapted to current circumstances. the report makes a number of good proposals and encourages awareness campaigns and exchange of best practices. i also welcome the fact that the report was drawn up with the aid of a considerable number of social partners.
in writing. ‒ statistics show that only 10% of fathers take at least one day of leave; whereas, in contrast, 97% of women use the parental leave that is available for both parents. this shows how much specific measures to foster a new kind of organisation of work, through more flexible models, are sorely needed to bring the much needed cultural changes in our society. i favour the call on social partners to do their part to promote the solution whereby a significant part of the leave remains non-transferable to underline that both parents have to be treated in the same way in terms of rights to income and the duration of the parental leave. gender discrepancy approximation at the workplace also demands fair redistribution of paid and unpaid work as well as of work, family and care responsibilities, and we legislators need to acknowledge that. the report is a step in the right direction in an attempt to reach the 75% employment rate target set in the europe 2020 strategy being achieved for women (it currently stands at 63.5%) by 2020; however, there is a need for proactive policies designed to help women enter and stay in the job market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the framework agreement on parental leave as it provides a balanced approach towards a better work-life balance with a reduced administrative burden, thanks to the fair assessment provided by the social partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it contains unacceptable references to abortion. i believe that unborn children should never be punished for the actions of adults.
in writing. ‒ while the text contained important measures to combat the deplorable act of trafficking of human beings, i could not support the final version as it included unacceptable references to abortion which are misplaced in the text.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for this very rich debate, where i think from one side we clearly highlighted how important are the problems we’ve been tackling in this evening’s debates and at the same time how complex the issue is with which we are dealing. i would like to tell you that i was listening very carefully to all the ideas which i think have been mostly recurring in the interventions of the honourable meps: how important it is to have a well-functioning market; how needed it would be to restore the real price signals of the energies; what we need to do to have our prices comparable; and what kind of focus we have to attach to crossborder trading, to the interconnectors and to the proper financing of the necessary infrastructure. i very much welcome the support for the democratisation of energy generation, and i agree with you that we still need to do well and ought to make sure that the third package in all our member states is properly implemented. i think there was an overall agreement that the best recipe to tackle energy poverty is to focus on energy efficiency, and today’s technologies are already offering us to do a lot to use the smart solutions, to smarten our grids, our households and to use the proper information to customise the services and empower our consumers. i also have been listening very carefully to all the calls from those who want the eu to do the most but at the same time to find the appropriate balance between member states and european competences. i would like once again to thank the rapporteur for a very timely report because we are now working hard to deliver on the remaining proposals which he promised we would deliver these year – the year of delivery for the energy union. in september, we would like to present the package on energy efficiency. we want to include also proposals on how to make our buildings more energy efficient, and many of the proposals which we heard today will be reflected in our proposals for the new electricity market design and for the revised renewables directive which would follow later – hopefully before the end of the year. despite all these regulatory proposals and the legislative regulatory framework which we are going to create, what i think was also very much reflected in the statements by the honourable members was the importance which they give to proper investment. we need the financial instruments. we need the investment so we can start this wave of energy efficiency across europe. we have already done a lot, because thanks to the budget allocations which have been already proposed, one million households will benefit from eu cohesion policy support to make their buildings more efficient. in this financial period, we will spend eur 5.4 billion for energy efficiency investment in housing, which is a threefold increase in comparison with the previous period. but the question is, is it enough? i think it’s not. so therefore i think we need to work on the new instruments, the instruments which we are currently developing in the commission: smart financing for smart buildings, because i believe that this would play a very important role for the future. another element which was echoed in the speeches of several honourable members was that we need to offer more assistance and help to local authorities, to mayors, and to provide them with better technical assistance to help them to develop the necessary capacity, so they can tackle these very complex issues of smartening cities or increasing energy efficiency in their electoral district. and i am very happy to say that we feel we have very strong grassroots support from local authorities, from mayors, for this energy transition, for tackling energy poverty and for transforming their cities into the smart cities of the future. in the covenant of mayors we have already 6 000 mayors and we know how they appreciate working on this platform. we are looking for ways to cooperate even more closely with the compact of mayors, which is a similar organisation, which was developed in the united states to make sure that these big entities of mayors have more platforms and more possibilities to exchange best practices. to conclude, i really would like to thank you for all the ideas, for the support for our work, and i believe that together we can really empower consumers in the energy market, and i think that through this it can make a real contribution in the fight against energy poverty. thank you very much. i very much look forward to our close cooperation in the coming months.
in writing. – when we talk about the energy union and the development of competitive energy markets in europe, we must make sure that consumers are at the centre of this strategy. they must be empowered in order to make them participate in demand response, thus saving money for their households and businesses. innovative solutions to shift to a smart, efficient and sustainable energy system using modern technologies can unlock significant energy and budgetary savings for companies and citizens. it can also help to improve air quality, increase well-being for individuals and provide benefits to society as a whole; benefits also to the most vulnerable consumers. too often energy-poor consumers are living in inefficient accommodation and paying too much for energy. instead, these vulnerable consumers should receive adequate safeguards, including preventing the disconnection of electricity and gas at critical times, and assistance to implement energy efficiency measures in their homes that can serve as long-term solution helping them to avoid energy poverty and in many cases improve their health and quality of life. energy is essential and access to energy services is a basic social right. the energy union and the eu’s framework of energy legislation must keep this in its focus.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the single market is one of the most tangible results of european integration and yet, despite its significant achievements, citizens, consumers and businesses have become increasingly dissatisfied with it as it often fails to convince them that it truly represents their interests and their aspirations. the main problem is that, in the average citizen’s eyes, the market is more concerned with vested interests than it is with their needs. we need to start working towards a fairer single market that is politically supported, economically viable and socially accepted by european citizens, a market that stimulates sustainable economic growth and job creation, but also considers citizens’ hopes, fears and expectations. the comi report is an important step towards achieving a strong, green, knowledge-based social market economy which by turning its focus back to its people will become a common asset of all its citizens, reduce unemployment, poverty, inequalities, social exclusion and wage dumping, promote respect of fundamental social rights, fair mobility and improvement of living and working conditions in europe. as a shadow rapporteur, i have striven to ensure that essential elements are added to the text aimed at improving the well—being of european citizens. therefore, i urge meps to support the report, and in particular the measures aimed at endorsing a highly-competitive social market economy, providing consumers with the highest level of protection, promoting innovative start-ups, smes and social economy enterprises, opposing abuses in the single market, which are trying to circumvent existing rules and lower worker and consumer and environmental standards, highlighting the economic, social and environmental benefits and challenges of the sharing economy, calling for a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, and supporting the ‘made in’ labelling, which is of crucial importance to protect consumers and provide them with the information they need. last but not least, we need to ensure that there is enough political will to ensure that a revitalized and redefined single market does happen for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are an interesting phenomenon and they are increasingly popular. i agree that they need to be looked at closely and the risks and opportunities associated with them need to be explored. i therefore voted in favour of this report. however, i would like to point out that when creating new legislation in future in order to protect consumers and prevent fraud, we need to remember to avoid over-regulation.
in writing. ‒ clearing, settlement and other post-trade management processes currently cost the global financial industry well in excess of eur 50 billion per year. together with bank reconciliation processes, these are areas where the use of dlt might turn out to be transformational in terms of efficiency, speed, and resilience, but would also raise new regulatory challenges. i agree that a merge into one secure and user-friendly application could advance certain aspects of e-commerce in europe and deepen the single market. i favour the development of a level european playing field to allow the valuable potential of dlts to be unleashed and fully developed. they can be used in numerous innovative fields and in a wide range of industries and services, such as ‘smart contracts’, crypto-equity crowdfunding and dispute mediation services, in particular in the financial and juridical sectors. i support the call to encourage public bodies to evaluate the benefits and explore the possibility of applying such innovative technologies to other fields with the aim of providing better, more rapid and more efficient services to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ this innovative method of payment focuses on both opportunities and risks in the technological landscape of payments. i believe that even though we need to recognise the welfare and economic contribution of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology we need a solid framework that does not hinder innovation yet provides a basis of precautionary monitoring. the current framework needs to be closely analysed in both technological and regulatory terms, we need to ensure a resilient and consumer protected system. this is why i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that together with the other proposals, the horizontal task force dlt is an important step forward, especially when considering the growing fear that these virtual currencies could be used with criminal intent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that underlines the benefits that virtual currencies, such as the bitcoin, have for smes. this report ensures the safety of virtual currencies without overburdening smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies, which calls on the commission to set up a task force to monitor virtual currencies like the bitcoin. in my opinion, this task force will help prevent virtual currencies being used to launder money or finance terrorism and will better protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised in order to help over two thousand workers of mory global who were made redundant reintegrate into the labour market. among others, they will be provided with career counselling, training workshops and job offers which should make their return to the labour market easier.
in writing. ‒ as a general rule, the european globalisation adjustment fund can be used only where over 500 workers are made redundant by a single company, or if a large number of workers are laid off in a particular sector in one or more neighbouring regions. i voted in favour of this report as the eligibility for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund is met.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 2 132 french lorry drivers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving a green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in france. the egaf funding of eur 5 146 800 is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 2 132 redundant workers into employment. the redundancies are linked to the general decline in physical output in europe, caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns. this has led to a reduction in volumes to be transported and a price war in the road haulage sector, followed by a wave of bankruptcies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund so that appropriate aid can be provided to former workers of the greek supermarket larissa in who were made redundant as a result of bankruptcies and closure of the cooperative shops. the funds should finance guidance and training in order to help workers return to the labour market. i particularly welcome the fact that the funds will also be used to finance start-ups.
in writing. ‒ as a general rule, the egf can be used only where over 500 workers are made redundant by a single company, or if a large number of workers are laid off in a particular sector in one or more neighbouring regions. i voted in favour of this report as the eligibility for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund is met.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 422 employees and 135 worker-owners were made redundant in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving a green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in greece, mainly central macedonia and thessalia. the egaf funding of eur 6 468 000 is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 557 redundant workers into employment. the redundancies were caused by a deep economic recession, the decrease of private consumption and purchasing power, due to the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report requests the removal of the parliamentary immunity for an mep. as i have always done in these cases, i agree to the removal of immunity so that an mep can prove his innocence or otherwise according to the judicial system of the relevant member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity of gianluca buonanno, for the sake of bringing legal certainty to the request for authorisation forwarded by the deputy public prosecutor of the ordinary court of vercelli;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sweden should be allowed to suspend its obligation of relocation for one year. sweden has already accepted an enormous number of asylum seekers and the situation is already very difficult for the country and its asylum system. i would like to take this opportunity to praise sweden for its efforts in alleviating the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ sweden has in 2015 by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita and the large sudden inflow of migrants has put a significant strain on country’s asylum system. i support the commission proposal as amended by the vote in committee, since i believe a provisional suspension will help sweden ease the pressure now and be better coping with such emergency situation in future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting sweden a temporary derogation of one year from the eu’s relocation schemes for the benefit of italy and greece following unprecedented and high inflows of asylum seekers because i believe it is essential to show solidarity to those who have always been on the forefront of the solidarity debate. in 2015 alone, sweden received the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu before malta for the first time in ten years. although through this measure sweden will be temporarily exempted from the relocation scheme, sweden has still committed to receiving those asylum seekers that arrive at sweden’s borders asking for asylum. the humanitarian crisis that europe faces is volatile, and the situation is ever changing. since migration policy must be based on the movement of persons, it must be flexible to understand the different realities that different member states face. this is why i believe that we should show solidarity to sweden in this regard, which has been on the forefront of a debate with regards to a clear eu-wide distribution policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important that sweden is able to efficiently process and assist applicants for international protection, especially minors, which this report addresses.
in writing. ‒ sweden had by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu during 2015 and it has had a significant increase in the number of unaccompanied minors among the applicants. the recent data from eurostat shows that the number of applicants for international protection in sweden has increased by 60% between the years 2015 and 2016 and that sweden had 39 055 applicants in october 2015 alone. therefore, i supported the legislative resolution for provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to show my support for the agreement between the european commission and the government of the united states on transfers of data between the eu and the us, the privacy shield. this is a significant improvement on our previous agreement, the safe harbour, and is bound to be of great benefit for consumers and businesses, most importantly small and medium-sized enterprises. i am also content that the protection of personal data of eu citizens will be better protected than before.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the privacy shield will help ensure that the fundamental rights of eu data subjects are protected during data transfer. this is crucial in bridging the gap between european and american approaches to privacy which is essential for rebuilding transatlantic trust. it is only through this confidence that an established framework for compliance can be reached. business-to-business transatlantic transactions and services are a reality, with free flow of data for intracompany purposes becoming a daily occurrence, and investment in data centres that provide access to the cloud in the us and the eu relying on cross-border data flows. the digitisation of the us and eu economies renders the cross-border flow of data a key element in the competitiveness of businesses domestically and globally, in particular for those engaging in e-commerce. i therefore support an adequate level of protection of eu personal data. there is a degree of information which would be invalid, hence through the privacy shield we can obtain legal certainty on how personal data should be transferred from the eu to the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the draft commission decision on the adequacy of the protection in the us provided by the privacy shield principles as i believe that the right to protect ones data from disproportionate use is a fundamental right, in today’s digital-age. the resolution calls for a balance between security and privacy, and seeks to ensure that citizen’s data is used in a manner which adheres to europe’s high data-protection standards when it comes to cross-border data flows between the eu and the us. in the past years various issues have been highlighted in various court decisions and conclusions by high level working parties such as the one enshrined within article 29 of data protection directive. the resolution calls for united states data controllers to comply with the data protection regulation with regards to services offered on the eu market or with regards to the monitoring of persons within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it enshrines greater protection of eu citizens’ data. the resolution expresses parliament’s commitment to coming to an agreement that respects eu law as well as the relevant judgements of the union’s legal bodies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on transatlantic data flows, in response to the commission’s decision concerning personal data transfers to the united states, called the privacy shield. although, the content of the privacy shield is a step in the right direction, it is still extremely problematic, as noted by working party 29 (consisting of the national data protection authorities of the member states) and the edps. in my opinion such a regime with the us needs to respect the new data protection acquis of the eu, court jurisprudence, the fundamental rights charter and be completely legally watertight.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s communication on the ‘new deal for energy consumers’ and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the report outlines some very good proposals to increase the competitiveness of the energy market, which i hope will soon be realised, and these seem to create many benefits for the consumers. i am particularly satisfied with the measures which are to help bring energy poverty to an end.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the scope of the report to build a more decentralised, flexible and renewable-based energy system for eu countries. i agree that by empowering citizens to take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy efficient it will be beneficial to both our consumers and tackle the problem of energy poverty. a transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully realised in all eu member states, as evidenced by persistent high levels of market concentration. i agree that the failure to reflect falling wholesale costs in retail prices will be a disservice to consumers. we should recognise that energy is a common good at the service of the community in order to facilitate the energy transition and deliver its maximum value. for this reason, i agree with the report in that it recommends developing guidelines for price-comparison tools to ensure that consumers can access independent, up-to-date and understandable comparison tools for greater control over their consumption and efficient energy use.
in writing. ‒ the role of consumers in the energy market is fundamental in order to ensure an inclusive and fair energy system. we need to have an energy union which truly safeguards consumer interests of both present and future generations. i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the rapporteur that more needs to be done in order to empower our citizens in the energy market. we need to protect consumers from unfair practices from suppliers and also make available the tools they need to be empowered, which are highlighted in the report, such tools consist of treating them fairly when they produce their own energy in terms of taxes and charges. i strongly agree with the need to address the causes of energy poverty and with the principle that access to affordable energy is a basic social right.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it highlights the need to move towards a more consumer-oriented and fair energy market, beneficial to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ the energy union should have citizens at its core and contribute to eradicating energy policy and protecting consumers from uncompetitive and unfair practices from suppliers. therefore, i voted in favour of the report on delivering a new deal for energy consumers, that proposes measures to allow consumers to save money on energy bills by asking suppliers to work with energy regulators, and for price comparison tools to be able to proactively notify consumers of how much they can save by switching supplier.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it outlines very good, concrete measures that could really help us reduce poverty among women. it is appalling that in the 21st century women still face stereotyping, often significantly lower earnings when compared to men as well as gender discrimination, all of which contribute to female poverty which is significantly higher than male poverty. i especially welcome the proposals related to reconciliation of private and professional life.
in writing. ‒ considering that women account for half the population, the fight against female poverty is not only a matter of social justice for equal opportunities, but a wise investment to resolve the problem of child poverty and global poverty as well. even perceiving this from an economic perspective, fighting against female poverty will help liberate the workforce from the constraints of family obligations and sustain the domestic demand needed for the eu economy to recover from crisis. so i would like to support this report to urge more effort on gender equality issues. i believe that specific measures need to be taken in all member states to improve work-life balance for women. therefore, i urge the commission to incorporate a more robust social dimension and workplace gender equality objectives which render tangible results. finally, i underline the importance of wiping out inequalities in the digital economy as regards equal pay and career development. i would like to stresses that increasing labour-market participation of women and related investments in social inclusion policies will help to reduce the gender pay gap. we need a digital market economy which would be sufficiently equipped to safeguard quality and security of jobs in times of digitalisation.
in writing. ‒ women are victims of poverty, eurostat data shows that the number of women remains permanently higher than that of men when it comes to poverty. it is unacceptable that females and children are victims of austerity policies which recently, due to the economic crisis, have widened inequalities. i voted in favour of this report as i support the recommendations outlined by the rapporteur in order to fight poverty amongst women. we need to allocate more funds and invest more in social infrastructures which eventually leads to more females accessing the labour market. economic independence does not only address female poverty but also other aspects such as domestic violence. further attention needs to be given also to the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because of the necessity to recognise the unique issues of women in poverty and act in order to resolve these issues. this report includes suggestions for the relief of child and migrant poverty, and poverty affecting the lgbti community. i voted in favour as it is essential to protect and demand equality for women and men in all aspects of society.
in writing. ‒ poverty hits women more than men, who are usually the first victims of austerity policies and the economic crisis, passing on the poverty cycle to the next generations and their children. today, in the eu 65 million women are concerned compared to 57 million men. therefore, i voted in favour of this report which points out the causes that bring women into poverty and gives recommendations to the commission and the member states how to tackle the effects of female poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that it is unacceptable that after over 20 years of the functioning of the single market most of the non-tariff barriers still exist. i am especially concerned that they create additional administrative burden and that they are particularly harmful to the small and medium enterprises which are the backbone of our economy. these non-justified non-tariff barriers need to be abolished as soon as possible. such step would bring us closer to the completion of the single market.
in writing. ‒ given that businesses and individuals are facing major obstacles in cross-border activities within the single market owing to lack of availability and quality of information, assistance services and online procedures addressing high administrative burdens and significant compliance costs need to be put in place. i support enhanced efforts to unlock the potential for a complete digital single market and the implementation of the eu digital agenda also through attributing importance of strengthening and streamlining existing single market tools for smes in order to simplify their cross-border expansion. in this sense i support the call upon the commission and the member states to place greater emphasis on streamlining and improving these systems, in particular the need for rapid improvement of the single points of contact to swiftly address the subject of non-compliance. finally, i would like to underline the need to be more consistent in the enforcement of existing correctly transposed rules by member states which can cause the same harm to the single market as late transposition.
in writing. ‒ the single market is an indispensable european tool which requires further attention and continuous strengthening. i believe that we need to address the shortcomings of the present market such as the unjustified non-tariff barriers. we need to ensure that these tariffs are not inspired by protectionism or bureaucratic purposes, which are affecting both trade and the free movement of goods. i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the points highlighted which require further attention, however, we must ensure a clear recognition of the right to regulate in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ i am in support of this report as the re-examination and removal of unjustifiable non-tariff barriers in hopes of moving towards a more consumer-friendly single market is essential to the union’s economic development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which applies the external trade concept on non-tariff barriers inside the eu, looking at remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market as ntbs and calling for their removal. while insufficient or incorrect application of existing eu rules still hinders intra-eu trade and constitutes an obstacle to growth, a clear distinction has to be made between ntbs and other rules both at eu and member states level that are lawfully in place and which serve a public policy objective.
in writing. ‒ this is an excellent report by lara comi and i congratulate her for the final outcome, which was preceded by long weeks of hard work. the overall aim is to improve the single market. the outlined measures are very promising and along with other eu strategies will help us further improve our economy and help it grow. the report is right in pointing out the single market should focus more on the needs of small and medium enterprises given their importance to our economy and that there are still possibilities within it to further improve the provision of goods and services.
in writing. ‒ i support the call to strengthen efforts to ensure tax fairness in the european union and combat aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance practices. essentially the commission would need to focus on working towards a country-by-country reporting obligation for transnational corporations. i agree that the commission and the member states would need to jointly come forward with proposals to prevent abuse in the employment and taxation areas in the sharing economy. the development of digital solutions for the payment of taxes, the provision of cross-border insurance schemes, and the modernisation of employment legislation are essential for the proper functioning of a single market strategy.
in writing. ‒ the recent financial crisis has increased the number of unemployed citizens, this calls for further integration which can be achieved by a strategic approach. we need to ensure equal treatment and social inclusion which needs to be accompanied with the creation of sustainable jobs. further assistance to smes is vital in order to have further economic growth and introduction of new jobs. the utilisation of all human capital is crucial in addressing unemployment, we need to improve skills and qualifications and continue to take actions against undeclared work. i am in favour of this report as we truly need a new holistic vision which focuses on green aspects and ensures the well-being of our citizens which calls for more equal treatment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the report as it focuses on a number of measures that will improve the functioning of the single market, namely increased transparency of product origins, smes more aware of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and a more equal market for competitors are important steps towards increased employment and consumer rights in the single market.
in writing. ‒ as a shadow rapporteur on the single market strategy report, i fully support the overall objectives of mep comi’s report. the single market strategy report is a step in the right direction in achieving a new holistic vision on the single market based on a green knowledge-based social market economy that will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures needed to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection.
mr president, the texts we are discussing relate to complex regulations developed in the past few years as a response to the demands and needs of financial markets in europe and elsewhere. they provide us with an opportunity to reflect on the financial services sector, to which they relate. in recent years, especially since lux leaks and the panama papers scandals, financial services have become associated in people’s minds with tax evasion, aggressive tax avoidance, money laundering and corruption. they have been seen as operated by unscrupulous bankers and accountants whose only commitment is to greed and the promotion of tax havens. there is some truth in that impression, but it is very far from being the whole truth. the globalised economic system in which we live, and the europe which is being built, need robust financial services to ensure that available resources are being effectively utilised. this truism needs to be repeated. here, we are devising new methods that make financial services more geared to today’s and tomorrow’s needs. just as importantly, however, we need new measures to ensure that the best practice in financial services is defined by professional behaviour which is committed to the highest ethical and social standards. at present, we do not have that assurance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products should be ratified as soon as possible to regulate this particularly important issue. cigarette smuggling has led to huge loss of tax revenue and customs duties and more importantly the sales of cheap and illegal tobacco products result in many tobacco-related diseases and deaths. clearing up the illegal tobacco trade will benefit public health and help to prevent tax evasion and related criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ there is a comprehensive eu strategy in force since 2013 to combat cigarette smuggling which proposes actions in the areas of decreasing incentives for smuggling, the improvement of the security of the supply chain, a stronger enforcement of tax, customs, police and border authorities, and strengthening sanctions. i agree with the protocol being proposed to counteract illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling which is a criminal activity posing a serious threat to public health. noting that it also causes huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties, with estimates indicating more than eur 10 billion losses of revenue annually to the eu and member states, it is calculated that roughly one cigarette out of 10 is sold illegally, which to me is very worrying. this means that as the eu we need to step up our action towards the ratification of the fctc protocol which will benefit public health and help the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ this is a consent file for ratifying the who framework convention on tobacco control. this protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. this protocol consists of a complex set of measures and rules to tackle illicit trade, such as establishing a global tracking and tracing system to make the supply chain more secure. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licensing, record keeping requirements, and regulation of internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products. smoking is a huge threat to public health while illicit trading also leaves behind a trail of abuses and illegalities, hence i voted in favour of this consent.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which will on the one hand contribute to a healthier society and on the other hand to a more efficient fight against organised crime and harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because it is another tool to counter illicit trade in tobacco products. the report aims to eliminate all forms of illicit tobacco trade. in order to address this, the protocol targets the supply chain of tobacco products via a series of measures by governments: creation of a global tracking and tracing regime and establishment of a global information sharing point. this report will establish offences, address liability and seizure payments as well and the disposal of confiscated products. it also concedes the irreconcilable conflict between the tobacco’s industry’s interests and public health’s interests.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry and related auxiliary industries are at the centre of the european economy creating huge profits and job opportunities. the proposed common standards of vehicles aim to keep this industry vibrant and maintain our leading role in the world. therefore i voted in favour of the report to speed up the establishment of a harmonised framework that regulates the industry and reduces unnecessary technical barriers.
in writing. ‒ through this report we are reflecting a situation whereby industrial production increasingly takes place in global value chains. the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperation in regulatory matters is fundamental to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. i reckon that the automotive sector provides jobs for 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the eu’s gdp. it is important for upstream industries (e.g. steel, chemicals) and downstream industries (e.g. ict, mobility services) making the eu among the world’s biggest producers of motor vehicles and the sector represents the largest private investor in research and development. i therefore think that it stands to reason that the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of the eu automotive industry and preserve its global technological leadership.
in writing. ‒ this file aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). this agreement aims to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approvals. the automotive industry is a core economic sector for the eu. international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety. as the protection of health and safety would be increased through such collaboration, i have supported this file with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as it will lead to a more transparent economic environment, the highest possible level of protection of health and safety, while contributing to a reduction of costs and duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because this report aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). this agreement aims to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approvals. the automotive industry is a core economic sector for the eu. international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i recommend parliament to consent to including croatia in the enforcement of the trade agreement which is signed between eu and colombia and peru. the adjustment of the agreement enables croatia to trade with other member states more efficiently in the internal market. i voted in favour of the report because taking part in the trade agreement is a natural consequence after croatia’s accession to eu.
in writing. ‒ the report says that the human rights situation in colombia has been the focus of eu attention as part of the institutional dialogue on human rights since 2008. the visa facilitation agreement will make it possible to cooperate further in the field of human rights and to pursue a balanced, regular, in-depth political dialogue on more specific issues such as impunity, human rights defenders and security for women and children in armed conflicts, issues which remain priorities. i understand that this is a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will also strengthen regional coherence, given that colombia is one of the minority of latin american countries whose nationals still need a visa and is of considerable importance in bringing the peoples of europe and colombia closer together.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical file to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia / peru, taking into account of the accession of croatia to the eu. i have supported this procedural file with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as the proposal extends the already active trade agreement with colombia and peru to the european union’s most recent member state, croatia, and so reduces barriers to trade and services.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with this dossier to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia/peru, taking into account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ in line with the union and the citizens, enhanced cooperation regarding property regimes of international couples is proved to be an ideal solution. therefore, i consent to the protocol of applying enhanced cooperation measure to tackle related issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this formal consent procedure giving parliament’s go-ahead for enhanced cooperation proposed by the council on two regulations establishing a common european framework for rules applicable to property regimes for international married couples or registered partnerships. parliament will be called upon at a later stage to give its opinion on the commission proposals for regulations regarding the jurisdiction applicable for property aspects related to matrimonial regimes and registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to this proposal as it stands, as the enhanced cooperation in this particular area of family is in the interest of citizens and in accordance with the objectives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of report, which aims to give parliament’s consent to the enhanced cooperation proposed by council on two regulations establishing a common european framework for rules applicable to property regimes for international married couples or registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i support the protocol aiming at clearing up illegal tobacco products trade through a worldwide tracking and tracing scheme of the supply chain of tobacco products. i especially welcome the proposal of international cooperation and information exchange to ensure a transparent and legitimate tobacco industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, welcoming the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the world health organisation protocol on the illicit trade in tobacco, as i believe that the protocol should be immediately ratified by the european union. the protocol serves to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products in relation to production, shipping, receiving, being in possession of, distributing, selling or buying tobacco products that are prohibited by law. because such illicit trade is dangerous for industry and public health, i voted in favour of the recommendations
in writing. ‒ i lend my support to this report, as it opens the way for the member states to use additional provisions aimed at disrupting the supply chain of illicit tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls to eliminate all forms of illicit trade. in order to address this, the protocol targets the supply chain of tobacco products via a series of measures by governments: creation of a global tracking and tracing regime and establishment of a global information sharing point. the protocol will establish offences, address liability and seizure payments as well and the disposal of confiscated products. it also concedes the irreconcilable conflict between the tobacco industry’s interests and public health’s interests. it is essential to have another tool to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is clear that more time is needed before this regulation may be effectively implemented. time should be taken given the importance of the issue – well implemented and clear regulations will allow for greater consumer protection and competition. the new deadline should be sufficient to allow for enforcement of the directive as it should be.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes collection of data in an efficient and harmonised manner while a new data collection infrastructure is being developed as part of a process which harmonises position-limits regime for commodity derivatives. the main scope is positive, that is, to improve transparency, support orderly pricing and prevent market abuse. i agree with the introduction of rules on high-frequency trading which improve oversight of financial markets by harmonising administrative sanctions. building on the rules already in place, the new framework also strengthens the protection of investors by introducing robust organisational and conduct requirements.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with financial instruments and a new overall legislative package referred to as mifid/r. it has been developed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the commission over the last two years. it is the single largest exercise esma has undertaken since it was founded in 2010. however it has become apparent that esma and national authorities will not have the it systems that they need in place in time for the market to comply with the intended ‘go live’ date of 3 january 2017. after seeking reassurances that this is the minimum delay necessary, and that it really is unavoidable, both parliament and council negotiating teams have agreed to approve this one-off delay. today’s vote deals which changes that have been done during the period of this extension with a view to improve the text. the changes include technical fixes about the treatment of package transactions, on the requirements for certain non-financial firms, and on the treatment of securities financing transactions. these issues are not politically controversial, have been approved by all the groups and are aimed at improving the final package. hence i supported them with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this report as it proposes valuable amendments to current legislation with regards to financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report that deals with financial instruments and a new overall legislative package referred to as mifid/r. it has been developed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the commission over the last two years. it is the single largest exercise esma has undertaken since it was founded in 2010. however, it became apparent that esma and national authorities will not have the it systems that they need in place in time for the market to comply with the intended ‘go live’ date of 3 january 2017. after seeking reassurances that this is the minimum delay necessary, and that it really is unavoidable, both parliament and council negotiating teams have agreed to approve this one-off delay. today’s vote deals with changes that have been made during the period of this extension in order to improve the text. the changes include technical fixes concerning the treatment of package transactions, on the requirements for certain non-financial firms, and on the treatment of securities financing transactions. these issues are not politically controversial and have been approved by all the groups and are aimed at improving the final package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and to postpone the dates of entering into force of the directive so that the relevant authorities have more time to prepare for the enforcement of the new package. harmonised regulations for investment services are an important issue and need to be considered carefully.
in writing. ‒ this is financial legislation adopted in the wake of the financial crisis as regards securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. i agree with a new framework which harmonises a position-limits regime for commodity derivatives to improve transparency, support orderly pricing and prevent market abuse. the introduction of rules on high-frequency trading and the improvement of oversight of financial markets by harmonising administrative sanctions is a step in the right direction by building on the rules already in place to strengthen the protection of investors towards a robust conduct requirement which transmits accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s position to extend the date of application of transposition of the the mifd ii package by member states. this is because, due to technical implementation challenges met by the european securities and markets authority (esma), national competent authorities (ncas) and stakeholders, it would be impossible to ensure full transposition by 3 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as it sets out needed reforms to existing legislation on market abuse and securities settlement.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report to extend the date of application of transposition of the mifd ii package by member states. this is because, due to technical implementation challenges met by the european securities and markets authority (esma), national competent authorities (ncas) and stakeholders, it would be impossible to ensure full transposition by 3 january 2017. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment that nominates mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. the hearing and evaluation demonstrate a positive opinion on this candidate. i believe that he qualifies for the position.
in writing. ‒ i support the favourable opinion on the council’s nomination of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors after the necessary assurances were given by the responsible committee to grant the nomination endorsement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lithuanian nomination of rimantas šadžius to the european court of auditors, since i consider him to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the lithuanian nomination of rimantas šadžius to the european court of auditors because i consider him to be a competent and motivated candidate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it sheds light on some of the crucial social issues such as poverty, lack of access to education or healthcare that concern millions of people around the world. in the context of the eu 2015 report on policy coherence for development it is rightly pointed out that a proactive and collective action from the european union as a whole is needed if we want our methods to be effective. i also agree that there are also parts of our policy coherence for development that need to be improved and where cooperation with the developing countries can be stepped up in order to achieve our common goals more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i agree the eu needs greater harmonisation of migration and asylum policies, both within the union itself and with its international partners, something we have been harping on about for years. a truly efficient and holistic migration and asylum policy has to fully integrate eu internal and external policies, in particular within eu working structures underlining the importance of developing a single common asylum and immigration policy. but unless we have an inclusive approach to tackle the root causes of migration that are closely linked to development in order to achieve a sustainable settlement of the current migration crisis, the situation will hardly improve. the eu and its member states remain the most important aid for trade donor in the world with eur 11.7 billion in 2013. i agree that we need to improve the monitoring and implementation of its objectives in all eu external action, including in eu-funded projects at country level.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the sustainable development goals in developing states and the donor-recipient paradigm. the lisbon treaty included for the first time in any treaty the eu´s legal obligation to pursue policy coherence for development (pcd) and further strengthen the overall focus on achieving consistency between the eu´s internal and external policies. today, there is an increasing consensus on the need to move beyond this paradigm. the adoption of the 2030 agenda challenges this vision by establishing a single, universal set of development goals applicable to all, overcoming the donor-recipient paradigm. this report proposes measures by which the eu should take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda that moves the concept forward towards sustainable development. i agree with this approach and thus i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i give my support to this report, as it both analyses the current situation with regards to policy coherence and seeks to stimulate the debate about the future of policy coherence for sustainable development at the eu level.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on policy coherence for development because i believe that despite the difficulties to implement pcd, the eu should make an effort to ensure more synergies among eu policies. a specific european council meeting on pcd before the publication of the next commission’s report in 2017 would contribute to raise awareness of pcd and to better define the responsibilities of the different actors involved.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution because its objective is to attract agricultural investment which can enhance food security and nutrition in africa. this report proposes in detail how to make use of the investment assisting local economic growth, regarding the revolution of farming, poverty, job creation and so on. i am particularly satisfied with the recommendation that the spending of the investment should be reported to the public and receive supervision.
in writing. ‒ i agree we should invest in local food systems in order to boost rural economies and ensure decent jobs, equitable social safety nets and labour rights. this will improve arrangements for democratic scrutiny of access to resources, including farmers’ seeds, and to ensure the effective engagement of small-scale producers in policy processes and implementation. in developing countries there has been an emphasis on food security which shifted from merely increasing the production of agricultural commodities to ensuring that countries have the capacity to feed themselves and improve their food sovereignty. the people have the right to decide upon their own agricultural and food policies and production. we know that family farmers and smallholders are the main investors in african agriculture, and provide over 60% of employment in sub-saharan africa. they have demonstrated their ability to increase food production sustainably (often through agro-ecological practices), to diversify production, to contribute to rural development, to increase incomes and, in turn, to help reduce poverty.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) launched in may 2012 under the auspices of the g8 aims to create the conditions that will allow the african countries concerned to improve agricultural productivity and develop their agrifood sector by attracting more private investment in agriculture. while the general objective of the nafsn is sound, certain deficiencies remain which are underlined in the report: the need to shift to sustainable modes of agricultural production and to support farmers' seed systems, the dangers associated with the emergence of a market for land rights, the regulation of contract farming; and they are weak on nutrition as well as on the recognition of women's rights and gender empowerment. this report suggests measures that help reach these goals. i am confident that the measures that are suggested in this report will improve this project, hence i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition, as it aims to leverage private investment in agriculture in order to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, which is a successful way to combat poverty among farmers in this part of the world.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition because, in my opinion, it is important that african governments invest more in local food systems in order to boost rural economies, ensure decent jobs, equitable social safety nets and labour rights in order to improve arrangements for democratic scrutiny of access to resources, including farmers’ seeds and to ensure the effective engagement of small-scale producers in policy processes and implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that aims to secure the stability of internal market and capital markets. it is a pity that no legal changes are proposed by the commission to solve the shortcomings identified in the evaluation on the application of ias and the activities of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs). i welcome the involvement of democratic scrutiny in the enforcement of new accounting and reporting standards.
in writing. ‒ i agree that in the interest of the public good we should not endanger financial stability or hinder the economic development of the union, which should serve the common good and not only the interests of investors, lenders and creditors. since 2005, publicly trading eu companies are obliged to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. the incorporation of the international accounting standards into eu law is governed by an endorsement mechanism as outlined in the ias regulation. this reinforces the reliability, comparability and transparency of financial information is an overarching objective; focus efforts on complete implementation since such a step is needed to enable the capital markets union and to contribute to processes leading to a fully-fledged single market. i therefore agree with the call for a standard setter to ensure that the ifrs are coherent within the existing body of accounting standards and to promote convergence at international level. we need a more coordinated approach in developing new standards with mandatory country-by-country reporting under ifrs. the latter can play a decisive role in combating tax avoidance and fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it promoted accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth. this report is the first european parliament report on the international accounting standards regulation which incorporates the standards agreed at the international level within the international accounting standards board into eu law. this report reflects the deep reform of the process of elaboration and it is also an endorsement of the accounting standards which ensure transparency and accountability, which is of utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. the international accounting standards board is providing financial services sectors with valuable tools to better assess and compare data from across the world, by creating a common language for global financial reporting.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which promotes accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth, and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that we all have the responsibility to assist the un in protecting the world. the report points out the severe situation in africa, fighting against terrorism and insurgent groups and calls for more contribution, especially military and police contribution, of the member states. i support the motion to establish strengthened cooperation among the eu, un and the african union defending peace and security. among many of the proposed aspects of assistance, helping africa build its own modern security system should be one of our priorities.
in writing. ‒ i agree that we need to enhance our support to partner countries and organisations, through the provision of training, advice, equipment and resources, so that they can increasingly prevent or manage crises by themselves. this moves in parallel with the clear need for mutually reinforcing interventions in the areas of security and development in order to achieve this goal. we need more coordinated external actions that make use of diplomatic, security and development tools to restore confidence and tackle the challenges of wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition. it is only through this that the eu could generate real added value in the regions. the increasingly complex security environment, un and au missions are in need of a comprehensive approach and requires exchanges of intelligence and information and modern technologies which will help our counter—terrorism and to fight crime in conflict and post-conflict areas.
in writing. ‒ as a politician coming from malta i am concerned with the security threats that are present in the sub-saharan africa including human trafficking, arms trafficking, terrorism and poverty. terrorist acts in this region are on the increase, with tragic outcomes. support for the creation of good governance structures, the respect for rule of law and human rights, education, food security, the prevention and fight against radicalisation and climate change should be kept a high priority when responding to the current situation in sub-saharan africa. i believe that eu-un cooperation is central to conflict prevention, conflict resolution and peacekeeping efforts. furthermore, the eu-au cooperation is crucial in addressing the issue of democratisation and political dialogue as a strategic choice for peace. for these reasons and also because i believe that stability in africa is a priority i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on peace support operations as it recognises the recurring issues that limit the effectiveness of european union operations in peacekeeping missions.
in writing. ‒ in relation to the report on peace support operations – eu engagement with the un and the african union, i am concerned with the security threats present in sub-saharan africa, including human trafficking, arms trafficking, terrorism and poverty. it is of concern to note that terrorist acts in this region are on the increase, with tragic outcomes. what is transpiring in burkina faso, mali, somalia and côte d’ivoire are a stark reminder of this. i believe that support for the creation of good governance structures, respect for the rule of law and human rights, the prevention and fight against radicalisation, attention to matters pertaining to education, climate and food security should be kept as a high priority when responding to the current situation in sub-saharan africa. such aspects contribute to the socio-economic development of the country, as well as to sustainable development. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the urgent need to eliminate unfair trading practices which undermine many fields of our economy, especially in the food supply chain. i therefore voted in favour of the report because for the benefit of people involved in business affairs, a fair relationship between business partners should be guaranteed as soon as possible. however, i would like to remind of the market diversities among member states so that it is challenging to draw up common legislation that fits for all. so, i prefer the more flexible model which tackles the issue via voluntary schemes together with national regulations.
in writing. ‒ putting an end to unfair commercial practices should be a priority. particularly when we are speaking about unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers as this report those. this report, which i voted in favour of, deals with small and medium-sized producers and farmers who engage in commercial relations on a highly concentrated market. this report emphasises that all voluntary schemes in place aimed at tackling unfair trading practices such as payment delays, restricted access to market, abusive changes to contract terms, undue pressure to decrease prices and the like, are insufficient. all this means that eu proposals for an eu framework doubled by a strong enforcement mechanism, including penalties are urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this report which addresses harmful practices in the european food supply chain, so-called unfair trading practices. we need to protect both farmers and consumers against unnecessarily high prices and to protect small producers from unfair competition. the proposed measures and greater cooperation between member states can help address this issue.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because it is essential to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations on a highly concentrated market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it proposes very good and applicable suggestions to upgrade conventional farming. under the pressure of a growing population, deteriorating environment conditions and numerous other problems that the agricultural sector is constantly facing, new solutions are needed in order to help the farmers deal with these. i agree that technology, innovation and research, constant improvements are the keys to tackling the challenges ahead of us. the rapporteur also rightly pointed out that a common approach is needed in order to come up with sustainable solutions to challenges that concern every single one of us.
in writing. ‒ i agree that innovative technologies should not be limited to one type of agricultural practice and need to be applicable to all farming types being it conventional, livestock or arable, or small or large-scale. having said that, traditional techniques and farms can continue to flourish, given that these are an immense asset, being a source of cultural, rural, historical and tourism diversity, and provide a livelihood for numerous european small-scale farmers in a whole variety of regions. i want to see more small-scale holdings who gain access to high technology which tailored to their needs. unfortunately, not all of these technologies are meeting farmers’ needs, either because the technology has yet to be optimised or adapted to local farming conditions, or because it is capital intensive and lies out of reach for the small farmer. most farmers and landowners are small businesses and minimising the administrative burden on these smes is vital. margins in the agricultural sector are small and extra costs threaten the survival of some small farming operations. finally, i support skill development and knowledge transfer in these areas, including by means of training and apprenticeships for young farmers and new entrants.
in writing. ‒ new technological solutions could make agriculture more sustainable while responding to the rise of global population, food security issues, increased demand for high protein products and healthier food. i believe that the focus on innovation and the use of new technologies such as ict in agriculture are things that need to be promoted further. these positive steps can help attract new young farmers, they can help fund research, skill development and knowledge transfer. i agree with the report when it states that soil degradation is a major constraint in agriculture and i agree also with its call for efforts to improve soil and water management. new technologies and innovative agricultural practices could contribute significantly to reduce pesticides and herbicides whilst protecting water and combating soil erosion. however i do not agree that more farming is the only solution to the increase in world food demand. i believe that solutions such as combating food waste are a more sustainable solution. my vote reflected the above concerns.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which provides new technological solutions for more sustainable forms of agricultural production. by implementing the proposals laid out in this report, we can unlock a new phase of agricultural innovation and begin to alleviate the economic concerns of eu farmers.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on innovations and use of new technological solutions, such as ict in agriculture, which might attract new young farmers, help to fund research, skill developments and knowledge transfer. however, intensive agriculture is not the only answer to those challenges. we have to tackle food waste first. innovation and research should accompany the future of agriculture but with the aim of safe and healthy food, improving the environment by not only protecting it but also and diminishing our consumption of chemical products such as fertilisers and pesticides. moreover, i am very concerned about the report’s promotion of use of new breeding technologies in farm animals. such technologies include cloning, genetic modification and gene editing. i am concerned that such breeding technologies will mainly be used to further intensify the eu’s livestock sector. i believe that new technologies such as gm and gene editing other than in exceptional cases where there is a strong evidence that they will be beneficial to animal welfare and will not entrench the use of intensive systems with inherently poor welfare. therefore, my vote reflected the above concerns.
in writing. ‒ agriculture is the pillar of european economy and is related to our lives closely. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which intends to build a modern farming through technology reform. the report underlines the close relationship between economic development and sustainable agriculture and the potential of high technology accomplishing the two goals. furthermore, it carefully examines measures the scientific measures to use our limited resources wisely in order to satisfy the demands of growing population. i am especially satisfied with the proposal that suggests introducing advanced techniques to farmers, in particular, to small and medium-sized family farms and farms in disadvantaged regions.
in writing. ‒ creating the right tools and the right framework will help us reach a more sustainable agriculture and farm management. the way our populations will change, coupled with demographic challenges, will necessitate changes in both the production of food and the way we consume and dispose of it. i agree that better management of natural resources is key to sustainable agriculture. i agree with the report where it stresses the need to tackle food waste, since each year 100 million tonnes of food in europe goes to waste. food waste is to be fought at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers. hence i voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ i have given my support to this report on enhancing innovation and economic development in our agricultural sector. being at the forefront of new technology uptake ensures a thriving rural economy. this report helps bring eu policies in line with the needs of both europe’s food producers and society.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report since i believe that sustainability of the environment and agriculture production is necessary in order to ensure a sustainable economic development of our primary production, and a transition to a bio-economy is required in order to attain sustainable development and be able to implement the cop21 agreement effectively. in this regard, it is important that incentives and other tools are available to invest in new and greener farming practices.
madam president, i very much welcome this debate. as politicians, we need to move away from just fire-fighting and start to tackle the causes of migration, otherwise we risk our actions always being too little, too late. our focus must be on preventing these situations from occurring in the first place. migration is a global phenomenon but one that requires measured, compassionate and effective european leadership. europe needs thinking that goes beyond tomorrow’s headline and focuses on tomorrow’s generation, and this means that the commission – and, crucially, as we have heard, the member states – must put up the money to help build capacity in third countries. we need to pump investment into developing countries, a form of marshall plan that will give people a chance of a future there without fear. of course we need better readmission and return tools for those not eligible for protection. safe third countries must do more to accept their nationals back. this must be part and parcel of our negotiations, and then we can work to build capacity in their law enforcement, judicial and, crucially, asylum systems, so that people in need of protection can also find safe haven in states outside of the european union.
mr president, thank you. for three years, as a member of parliament, i have spoken about migration and the problems it can create. my focus has always been: let's give them a future in their own country. only then can we begin to alleviate the economic problems of these people, save them from a certain burial in the mediterranean and avoid the problems that uncontrolled migration can create for european countries. i was therefore pleased to hear commissioners timmermans and mogherini speak today and focus on the proposals for aid to african countries, at home. through investment, including private, and considerable financial aid. we will only be careful that the billions of funds proposed and the investment really benefit the citizens and do not end up in the pockets of the few because otherwise the problem remains.
in writing. – if we rewind the clock back to the past few years it becomes pretty evident that every year, every june and july this parliament meets in strasbourg to yet again debate the issue of migration, emphasising the fact that more hundreds of people have once again perished in the central mediterranean trying to make it to european shores. this parliament calls for all eu member states to act and address this issue, but once again very little happens. the time for speeches has long been gone. the time for action was years ago, but the eu as a whole failed to act in a way which really matters and which can change things. long-term solutions to challenges are needed more than ever before. southern mediterranean arrivals’ journeys are spearheaded by a need for development, a necessity for employment and a thirst for globalisation. these challenges cannot be solved with quick-fix policies, but a with long term strategy that generates growth, encourages development, ensures education for all and grants opportunities for the many and not for the few in a way which is fully transparent, democratic and accountable.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to start by expressing my thanks to all the honourable members for their valuable contributions and the interesting debate. i am really pleased to see that many of you recognise the importance of these issues in the context of a migration crisis where we continue to deal with the immediate challenges, as mr coelho rightly pointed out. one does not compete with the other. we must continue to find immediate solutions while making our policies future-proof. let me address some of your comments and concerns. on the blue card, the scope remains only for highly skilled employees. this is the purpose of the blue card. for other skill types we have existing instruments, such as the single permit and the seasonal workers directive. in the coming months, we will focus on making sure they are implemented properly, but we will also make a comprehensive evaluation of all existing legal migration instruments to see if there are any shortcomings. on refugees, mrs valero, actually this is the only element that challenges the scope because we do allow those who have received international protection in an eu member state to apply for the blue card, if, of course, they fulfil all the conditions. as you know, the rights of asylum seekers are laid down in the eu asylum legislation and they have access to the labour market no later than nine months after they submit their application. for highly skilled potential asylum seekers outside the european union, they can simply apply for the blue card if they secure a job offer. on the single scheme, how can we ever have a truly internationally competitive scheme like the united states’ green card if we continue to have more than 20 different systems? let us be very clear on what we are putting on the table. member states still decide on the volumes, and they have safeguards to protect their labour markets when there are sudden moments of high unemployment through the labour market test, as well as safeguards against abuse. an eu scheme will help to increase our competitiveness and create opportunities for more investment and jobs in the european union. some words about the brain drain that concerns many of you, justifiably: our proposal includes a mechanism to limit brain drain. firstly by promoting ethical recruitment: member states may refuse a blue card if an applicant comes from a sensitive sector – for example, health care in a developing country. secondly, by promoting circular migration: a blue card makes it easier to go back and forth for periods of time. a well-managed policy leads to a win—win situation. it has benefits for receiving countries but also for the countries of origin, such as remittance payments and the return of migrants with new skills and networks. this will turn the brain drain into a brain gain. i hope you will agree with me that the status quo on the blue card was not sustainable. it had to be improved and we have been as ambitious as possible. we count on you to take this work forward now with the council. on the integration action plan: as claude moraes stressed, integration is not an option. i think we all agree that it is in the ultimate economic – but also social – interest of everyone in the european union to integrate third country nationals fully and as soon as possible. of course, this is – and remains – a national competence, but our action plan aims to support member states towards building more cohesive and, ultimately, stronger societies. this is not about creating pull factors or spending money disproportionately. this is precisely about making that investment in the beginning so that the returns are bigger in the end for everyone. building on the action plan, we will continue to mainstream the priority of integration, non—discrimination and inclusion into all relevant policy actions and areas. finally, we will regularly review the implementation of the actions presented in this action plan and the progress achieved in member states, identify additional actions needed for the future, and report to the parliament and the council. now allow me to say some words in greek, answering the question put by my compatriot, mr chrysogonos. κύριε χρυσόγονε, καταρχήν να σας ευχαριστήσω για την ερώτησή σας. είπα μερικά πράγματα πρωτύτερα για το «brain drain», για τη διαρροή εγκεφάλων. εκτίμησή μου, και το εννοώ, είναι ότι η προσέλκυση ατόμων με υψηλό επίπεδο δεξιοτήτων στην ευρωπαϊκή ένωση θα έχει τελικά ευεργετικά αποτελέσματα για όλους μας: την ευρωπαϊκή ένωση, τα κράτη μέλη, τους ίδιους τους κατόχους των μπλε καρτών και βέβαια τις πατρίδες τους. μίλησα νωρίτερα για τα οφέλη της ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης και βεβαίως των κρατών μελών. θέλω να τονίσω με την ευκαιρία που μου δίνεται ότι τα άτομα αυτά –μην έχετε καμία αμφιβολία– θα αποκτήσουν νέες δεξιότητες, θα βελτιώσουν αυτές που ήδη έχουν. μην έχετε καμία αμφιβολία επίσης ότι, σαν έρθει η ώρα να επιστρέψουν στην πατρίδα τους, θα επιστρέψουν καλύτερα καταρτισμένοι, έτοιμοι να συνεισφέρουν στην ανασυγκρότηση των χωρών τους. πολλοί εξ αυτών προέρχονται από χώρες που έχουν κυριολεκτικά καταρρεύσει και διαλυθεί. σαν έρθει λοιπόν εκείνη η ημέρα θα είναι μία έμμεση συνεισφορά της ευρώπης και θα συνιστά επένδυση η παρουσία τους κοντά μας. πραγματικά το εννοώ αυτό γιατί πιστεύω πράγματι ότι όλη αυτή η πρόταση συνεισφέρει θετικά για όλους και για την ευρώπη και για τα κράτη μέλη αλλά και για τις τρίτες χώρες. τα κράτη μέλη θα είναι αυτά που θα καθορίζουν τον αριθμό των εξειδικευμένων μεταναστών που χρειάζονται και που είναι σε θέση οι χώρες να απορροφήσουν. αυτό που σήμερα παρουσιάσαμε είναι μία δυναμική κίνηση προς τα εμπρός, με δεδομένη την εμπειρία που αποκομίσαμε όλον αυτό τον καιρό από την μεταναστευτική και την προσφυγική κρίση. αλλά ήταν καιρός και η ευρώπη να ανοίξει νόμιμους διαύλους. μέχρι πριν από λίγα χρόνια η ευρώπη δεν είχε καν μεταναστευτική πολιτική παρά μόνο κάποια ψήγματα διεσπαρμένα σε διάφορες διευθύνσεις της επιτροπής. τώρα είναι και ολιστική και συγκροτημένη και έρχεται να απαντήσει στο τρέχον μεγάλο πρόβλημα κάτω από την ασφυκτική πίεση των προσφυγικών και των μεταναστευτικών ροών. αλλά ήρθε να δημιουργήσει και ένα νόμιμο πλαίσιο, γιατί στο μέλλον –το είπα πρωτύτερα– η ευρώπη θα χρειαστεί εργατικό δυναμικό. και να μην ανησυχεί κανείς για το τι θα συμβεί μέσα στην ευρώπη, διότι σε λίγο καιρό από τώρα –θα ήθελα να σας το γνωστοποιήσω από σήμερα– θα παρουσιάσουμε ένα ολοκληρωμένο σχέδιο, για να χτυπηθεί επιτέλους και το φαινόμενο της ανεργίας. η ευρώπη είναι εδώ, παρούσα, και τα κράτη μέλη προσδοκούν πολλά από εμάς και την απάντηση και τη βοήθεια θα την έχουν πολύ σύντομα. αλλά το ότι η ευρώπη θα χρειαστεί στο μέλλον εργατικό δυναμικό όλοι το ξέρουν, και μιλάμε για πάρα πολλά εκατομμύρια, που εκ των πραγμάτων θα προκύψει ως ανάγκη στο μέλλον. η ευρώπη γερνάει. το ξέρουμε και το επαναλαμβάνουμε συχνά στις συζητήσεις μας εδώ. μακάρι να ήταν σε θέση να μπορέσει να ανταποκριθεί από μόνη της. θα χρειαστεί όμως εργατικό δυναμικό και γι’ αυτό τον λόγο σήμερα δημιουργούμε το νόμιμο περιβάλλον, τις νόμιμες συνθήκες, έτσι ώστε να προχωρήσουμε ανταποκρινόμενοι στις απαιτήσεις των καιρών και κυρίως των μελλοντικών αναγκών. αν υπήρχε πριν από δύο χρόνια αυτό που σήμερα παρουσιάζουμε, θα ήταν διαφορετική και πιο αποτελεσματική η αντιμετώπιση ακόμα και της μεταναστευτικής κρίσης, όπως αυτή εκδηλώθηκε μέσα από τις ροές μεταναστών κυρίως, σε πρώτη φάση, και προσφύγων αργότερα. θέλω να πιστεύω ότι αυτό που κάνουμε πραγματικά ανταποκρίνεται στο δικό μας χρέος αλλά και στις δικές σας προσδοκίες, για να θυμίσω παλαιότερες συζητήσεις μας σε αυτή την αίθουσα όπου πάντοτε μας παροτρύνατε να φτάσουμε σε αυτό το σημείο. και σήμερα με ικανοποίηση βρισκόμαστε εδώ μπροστά σας, λέγοντας ότι όχι μονάχα το πράξαμε αλλά επιπλέον ότι οφείλουμε πολλά και στο ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο, που μας έδωσε την ώθηση, την ενθάρρυνση, να προχωρήσουμε σε αυτό το αποτέλεσμα. ευχαριστώ πολύ για την προσεχή σας.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members of parliament, i am very pleased to be here with you in strasbourg to present the new skills agenda, which will be formally adopted and announced to the press on friday. but i am happy to be with you already here today to share and discuss with you the key elements of our agenda. the skills agenda is one of the most important initiatives on the commission’s work programme this year. it will directly contribute to our promise to deliver on jobs, growth and fairness. i would like to address my thanks to parliament for your active contribution to the debate on skills: from last year’s report on ‘creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century’, by martina dlabajová to the adoption this year of the resolution on ‘skills policies and youth unemployment’ by marek plura, or the report on ‘mobility in vocational education and training’, by ernest maragall, to mention only a few of your initiatives, as well as the very useful joint hearing of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and the committee on culture and education (cult) in april, where i participated together with my colleague tibor navracsics. skills are a pathway to prosperity. with the right skills, people are equipped for good-quality jobs and can fulfil their potential as confident, active citizens. also, in a fast-changing global economy, skills determine europe’s competitiveness and the capacity to drive innovation. yet the situation in europe calls for action. more than 70 million europeans have poor reading, writing, numeracy and digital skills. one in four adults has not achieved an upper secondary qualification. too many people work in jobs that do not match their talents. women represent 60% of new graduates, but their employment rate remains below that of men. at the same time, 40% of european employers have difficulty finding people with the right skills. and too few people have the entrepreneurial skills and mindsets needed to establish their own business. furthermore, the digital transformation is re-shaping the way we live, work, and do business and the types of skills needed. europe faces shortages in high-level skills – you just had a discussion on that with my colleague mr avramopoulos – and despite good employment outcomes, vocational education and training is still regarded as a second choice by many. while national and regional labour markets and education and training systems encounter specific challenges, all member states face similar problems. the new skills agenda for europe focuses on three priority areas: improving skills levels and their labour market relevance across europe; making skills and qualifications easier to understand and compare across borders and economic sectors; and improving forecasting and understanding of skills needs now and in the future. to step up action and not to leave anyone behind, we propose a basic skills guarantee. this is a recommendation to member states to bring together their resources to offer low-skilled people opportunities to catch up and acquire the skills that will help them to find employment, stay in work, and improve their working situation. a revision of the european qualifications framework will make it easier to understand and compare skills and qualifications, and facilitate work and study mobility. we are also putting forward a ‘blueprint’ for cooperation on skills in specific economic sectors to stimulate stakeholders to work together, to identify skills needs and identify practical solutions. refugees and migrants come to europe with a diversity of skill-sets that can contribute to our economies. in order to facilitate integration into the labour markets, we propose a skills profile tool for third country nationals to help identify and document their skills, their qualifications, and their professional experience. a red thread across our agenda is the need to stimulate strong business-education partnerships, such as those under the european pact for youth. these partnerships also have a crucial role in promoting entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial mindsets. other actions will follow over the next two years. later this year, we will propose a revision of the europass framework to support the documentation of skills and qualifications and better skills intelligence. we count on your support for swift adoption when the time comes. we will also launch a ‘digital skills and jobs coalition’ to develop a large digital talent pool and ensure that individuals at all levels are equipped with adequate digital skills. for 2017, work in the pipeline includes a revision of the 2006 key competences framework, proposals supporting the modernisation of vocational education and training, and an initiative on graduate tracking to improve information on how graduates progress in the labour market. european funds are there to help with the implementation of these proposals. for the period 2014-2020, there is more than eur 27 billion of the european social fund available to support skills. europe’s prosperity depends upon our most valuable asset – our people. in a fast-changing global economy, it is people’s skills which will be a motor for our competitiveness and growth. the skills agenda sets out how europe will add value to member states’ action and to mobilise actors. together, i am sure together we can unlock europe’s full potential.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president and i welcome the creation of the new skills guarantee that the commissioner has spoken about, which will help a lot to fill the gap that the youth guarantee has not been able to address, and which will help those adults at low skill level, to learn the essentials such as reading, numeracy and digital skills. it is also positive that the emphasis is not only on the academic, but also on vocational skills and on craft training. and the commissioner rightly said that craftsmen should be recognised as being qualified at the same academic level. in order to be in a position to make these changes it is very important, madam commissioner, to involve the social partners, businesses and various educational training institutes, in order to update the content of the syllabus and make it more relevant to the world of work. member states should be encouraged to develop the digital training of their teachers as part of this training programme. we welcome the establishment of the new and comprehensive craft agenda as it will establish a versatile tool that will be flexible to adapt and succeed in a fast-changing work environment and to achieve a higher level of coherence between member states in terms of policy and achievements. to be successful, we have people, honourable members, who need to have a selection of basic skills, to be able to read and write, to learn various languages and digital sciences. with these, we should also introduce the element of entrepreneurial skills as early as possible.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think this has been a very useful exchange and i thank all the honourable members for the clarity of their interventions. i have listened carefully to most of your points, actually to all of your points, and taken good note of your expectations and concerns regarding the implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), and beyond that regarding the overall relationship between the european union and the philippines. i think from this debate with you that we both share a common desire to further develop european union-philippines relations, but to continue to ensure that this deepening remains based on our global common values and interests. you have referred to different issues there and i think they are around the issue of human rights, free and fair trade, the situation in the chinese sea and the issue of the peace process in the philippines. let me start with the issue of the human rights situation. let me remove all kinds of worries that this would remain unmonitored, so to speak. the eu’s assessment of the human rights situation in the philippines has been described, notably in the report on the generalised scheme of preferences covering 2014—2015 – submitted to you in january 2016 – and i think we are planning to continue to judge compliance with the united nations human rights conventions, referred to obviously in the gsp+ decision, and the eu’s gojust programme will provide a vehicle to strengthen institutional capacities so that we do not only monitor but also strengthen the capacity and the work of the national human rights commission in the philippines. in 2017, the universal periodic review will look at the implementation of the international commitments made by the philippines while under the pca, as you know, a human rights dialogue will be established. on the fta negotiations themselves: they were launched at the end of last year. we had a first round in may 2016 and we hope to conclude an agreement that covers a broad range of issues. as you know, in the asean region the philippines are very important to us; i think they are the fifth, and probably soon the fourth, largest economy and the second biggest market. the trade in services between the european union and the philippines was worth also substantial figures, over three billion in 2014. the european union is also the largest investor, foreign investor, in the philippines. that is sometimes not known. people think it is the united states; no, it is the european union. now i think the issues surrounding unfair competition are very important and should be addressed, obviously, in the fta, in negotiations. there will be a dedicated specific trade sustainability impact assessment for the bilateral fta that will incorporate many issues, including this one, but also human rights dimensions, as well as impact assessment and sustainability impact assessments. i think it is important to say that. then you were all talking about the external and internal strategic situation in the philippines and outside the philippines. first of all, the issue of the country’s stands on the south china sea and the permanent arbitration court. let me just say what the european union’s position is. as you know, probably, we have already highlighted, in the eu-28 statement of 11 march 2016 on recent developments in the south china sea, our principal position on the need to maintain the rule of law, to settle disputes peacefully without recourse to a threat or use of force and to abstain from unilateral actions which could increase the tensions. these are the three elements of the council’s position on this. of course, concerning the sovereignty issues themselves, we have no position; we do not take a position. the european union is a contracting party to the united nations convention on the law of the sea and we have really full confidence in the proceedings underway and are looking forward to the tribunal rendering its work public this summer. a negotiated solution on the code of conduct between china and asean, underway for quite some time, supported by confidence-building measures, is the best solution, and we encourage asean and the philippines to continue on this path. let me mention in conclusion the importance of the internal peace processes in the philippines. i think this will be one of the yardsticks, especially for the people of the philippines: to what extent also the new incoming administration will be able to make progress in peace negotiations both in mindanao and with the npa. we will of course promote this. we will support that. i will not go into all the details of these negotiations, because of the time, but do realise and know that european union support for mindanao is also part of the instrument contributing to stability and peace programme – for instance the eu’s support for implementation of the comprehensive agreement on bangsamoro, which is a substantial programme of over eur 5 million, implementation of which started in august 2015.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, as you know, the united states is an important partner for the european union in the fight against terrorism. we all know as well that there have been very serious concerns and differences in the past over certain aspects of us counterterrorism policies, and the european union has engaged with the united states on these issues for many years – on many issues, from waterboarding to rendition, all kinds of issues that run counter to international human rights standards. this dialogue has enabled us to raise a range of issues and serious concerns that we have with the united states on this issue. it is important to highlight – we are now in 2016 – that president obama formally ended the cia programme within days of taking up office, and that was a very crucial decision. at the time, through an executive order, he prohibited any form of torture or ill-treatment, as well as so-called ‘enhanced interrogation techniques’ and secret detention. we share the views expressed by president obama at the time that these techniques are against our values and they do not serve the fight against terrorism. the council has stated repeatedly that the fight against terrorism has to take place in full respect of international law, international humanitarian law and refugee law. that was true at the time and it is still true today. we can only tackle terrorism if we stay true to our core values and the european union condemns all forms of torture and other ill—treatment under any circumstances and works towards their prevention and eradication within the european union and worldwide as a priority of its human rights policy. now the programme that was referred to in the questions was stopped many years ago, and president obama has brought us counterterrorism policies much closer to the approach we have here in the european union, including the prohibition of what were called – as a euphemism, i am afraid – ‘enhanced interrogation techniques’ and the strong use of the criminal justice system. article 4 of the eu treaty states clearly that national security remains the sole responsibility of each member state. this means that the work of member states’ intelligence agencies is outside the scope of the competence of the european union and its institutions. therefore, i understand some of your concerns that the council has not given follow-up to the recommendations that are included in your resolution for the simple reason that the council does not have the competence to do so according to the european union treaty. is that a satisfactory situation? the answer is obviously a ‘no’. personally, as a european, i am ashamed that these practices in the past took place on european territory. i want to express on behalf of the council that same shame today, but the council has to act within the competences that are conferred on it by the treaty. but this is not the end of the story, and i am sure that the commissioner will also go into some of the aspects regarding her competence. it does not mean that the activities of individual member states that take part in unlawful activities are without scrutiny. eu member states are bound by the european convention on human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the counterterrorism actions of member states, including alleged involvement in the cia secret flights, are reviewed by the european court of human rights. in the past, the court has condemned the practice of illegal renditions on european territory in at least one verdict. other inquiries are still pending so there is a solid judicial framework. the council wants to underline the importance of this solid judicial framework from a political point of view, leaving at the same time the judgment to the courts, as it should. moving forward, it is important to continue to ensure that counterterrorism policies fully respect human rights, both at the european union and member state levels. what happened with renditions must never happen again.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome parliament’s continuous effort to follow this issue. the practices referred to in the report of the us senate on the cia detention and interrogation programme constitute serious violations of fundamental rights. the fight against terrorism cannot justify unlawful arrest, arbitrary detention, torture or other ill-treatment. however, i also need to note that national security is outside the remit of commission competence. the treaty does not give the commission any competence to lead investigations into the actions of national intelligence and security services. moreover, the charter of fundamental rights only applies where the member states are implementing eu law. finally, the relevant facts occurred before the member states in question acceded to the eu. this notwithstanding, the commission has consistently stressed since that all member states concerned have to conduct in-depth, independent and impartial investigations to establish the facts. they should establish responsibilities and enable the victims to obtain compensation for damages. this is a positive obligation which derives from the european convention on human rights and this has been recalled recently by the european court of human rights. when it comes to asylum and judicial cooperation, at the time of the execution of the cia programme there were no eu provisions applicable to judicial cooperation between the eu and the united states. the two agreements with the united states, one on extradition and the other on mutual legal assistance, entered into force on 1 february 2010. they clarify and unify the legal framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the united states. likewise, at the time there were no eu provisions for the qualification and status of third country nationals or stateless persons as refugees, nor were there any eu provisions applicable to procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status. directives 2004/83/ec and 2005/85/ec entered into force and were transposed after these events. within the remit of eu law, the eu’s and the member states’ actions against terrorism must always comply with fundamental rights standards. the eu-us agreements on extradition and judicial cooperation, as well as other relevant eu legislation against terrorism, must be implemented and applied in a manner fully compatible with the charter of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in our fight against terrorism we must never forget what the big picture is and therefore what our overall objectives are. we must always keep in mind what we are protecting. our values, rights and freedoms that we often take for granted are under threat. that is a fact. we are living in the shadow of terrorism because we claim that we have the right to live the lifestyle that we live. and we are determined to continue living this life and all that makes us european citizens as we are living today: a normal life with a right. the use of torture goes against the values we defend and advocate. torture is always wrong and can never be justified. we cannot defend it. one thing is certain, torture can never make us safe citizens. the means we use to combat terrorism must be effective but at the same time must be within the framework of international law and respect for basic human rights. we should not and cannot abandon our principles when our path is upward. on the contrary, in such a situation, we must work harder and increase our efforts always in a legitimate way. we have therefore set up a committee of inquiry within the european parliament over the past year. it is now time to learn from the lessons and mistakes of the past and to recognise that the courts are the institutions best suited to conduct investigations into criminal proceedings. torture should not be our weapon, it does not represent our values and principles, it does not represent the europe i believe in.
in writing. – i am among those who are very disappointed with the outcomes of efsi’s first year. the commission’s euphoria about the results cannot be reconciled with the reality. but i am unsurprised things have turned out this way. the financial fundamentals of efsi, based on relatively insignificant ‘own’ funds, levered extensively through guarantees to surpass eur 300 billion with private capital, militate against a choice of projects considered by markets as having low payoffs or being too risky. the institutional fundamentals of efsi, tied into the european investment bank framework, constrain the fund to follow the eib operational model. the claim is that some low-risk, long-term infrastructure projects launched by efsi would have featured as an eib project otherwise. similarly projects have been concentrated in infrastructure areas which can only be considered as ‘safe’. for them, non-efsi finance could easily have been found. there is, too, a concentration of projects in the bigger economies of the single market, with southern and other peripheral small economies practically not featuring at all. indeed, one could claim that efsi is providing an example of how, under eu initiatives, a transfer of resources from the periphery to the centre is occurring, further emphasising structural divergences.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of full disclosure of politicians’ assets and accounts in order to preserve their political integrity and avoid any shadow of doubt, be it factual or perceived, in relation to corruption. in line with malta’s longstanding position against tax havens and tax evasion i also fully support all efforts aimed at the preservation of the rule of law in relation to payment of taxes. in view of these elements and in full respect of our citizens’ right to information and to clean politics, i supported the setting up of such a committee and look forward to the outcomes and actions on such findings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. we need to ensure that those who abuse to the detriment of others are held to account. our citizens expect strong measures to clamp down on tax evasion and aggressive, abusive tax avoidance, particularly by those with a political responsibility to safeguard the common good.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement that allows visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and of palau. i believe short-stay visa waiver can intensify the relationship between the eu and palau as well as effectively promote cultural communications and business collaborations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the report advocates a visa waiver covering all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i see the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. palau is a democratic republic completely committed to human rights, which are guaranteed under the constitution, and like the european union, it embraces the values and principles of democracy and good governance and upholds human rights and the rule of law. i also register that the country has made great progress in recent years, particularly as regards women’s rights and human trafficking; hence i support more positive cooperation based on mutual respect for our values and principles.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement, which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will open up opportunities and advantages for eu citizens too and could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i supported this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement can have positive effects by simplifying travel for business people, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. politically, palau has made great progress in recent years, particularly as regards women’s rights and human trafficking. it has adopted legislation specifically relating to human trafficking and has become a member of the international labour organization. regarding gender equality, more women are now to be found in administrative posts and elected office. similarly, palau has signed all the international conventions on human rights and is receiving eu support to ratify and implement them. the current political dialogue between the eu and palau is focused on human rights and gender equality, and both parties are discussing how to collaborate more closely on these issues. in this context, the agreement represents a significant step towards more regular and enhanced political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i would like to give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement that allows visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and of tonga. i believe short-stay visa waiver will deepen our relations with tonga and will positively contribute to our cultural and business exchanges.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. while eu trade relations with tonga are relatively insignificant, the report says that they have strong potential for development, particularly in the context of eu negotiating on comprehensive economic partnership agreements with 14 pacific countries, including the tonga. moreover, tonga has a large wind energy production capacity and 90% of the 11th set of edf appropriations for 2014-2020, amounting to eur 11 million, which are earmarked for renewable energy and energy efficiency. i see scope in intensifying our partnership, focusing however on fundamental aspects such as abolition of the death penalty, combating violence against women and gender equality; which would be indispensable preconditions towards further cooperation. in this context, the visa exemption could send out a positive message of support for the country and the efforts it is making.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. it is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full benefit from the eu-acp partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i supported this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement, which is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement may allow us to intensify our partnership, focusing on aspects such as abolition of the death penalty, combating violence against women and gender equality. the country has achieved considerable progress, as evidenced for example by the decision to ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. the visa exemption could send out a positive message of support for the country and the efforts it is making. the visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full benefit from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost. this agreement will open up opportunities and advantages also for eu citizens, as any existing requirement for eu citizens to travel to these countries will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement that allows visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and colombia. the short-stay visa waiver will have a positive impact on our relations with colombia. clearer and easier travel arrangements are bound to have a positive effect on our cultural and economic ties.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru will now take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. i agree with the consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement which marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations. the agreement will also make it possible to cooperate further in the field of human rights and to pursue a balanced, regular, in-depth political dialogue on more specific issues such as impunity, human rights defenders and security for women and children in armed conflicts, issues which remain priorities for the eu.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of colombia when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i supported this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement, which marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia. the visa facilitation agreement will make it possible to cooperate further in the field of human rights and to pursue a balanced, regular, in-depth political dialogue on more specific issues such as impunity, human rights defenders and security for women and children in armed conflicts, issues which remain priorities for the union. the agreement also contains a joint declaration on cooperation with regard to irregular immigration in which the eu and colombia reaffirm their undertakings regard to the readmission of irregular migrants. colombia may also become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, including drug trafficking, which can represent an important aspect of cooperation. these are all challenges faced by the european union and the republic of colombia alike, showing how important and necessary it is to enhance cooperation by means of a short-stay visa waiver agreement. this agreement will open up opportunities and advantages also for eu citizens, as any existing requirement for eu citizens to travel to these countries will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to encourage commitment from more member states into expanding the coverage of duty free trade on information technology (it) products. taking into account the leading role of our technologies, our trade policies should always keep up with any it developments. eliminating unnecessary tariffs can effectively create more jobs and stimulate economic growth. i am confident that consumers will benefit from lower prices and suppliers will benefit from fewer trading barriers.
in writing. ‒ it is worth taking note that only 29 wto member states initially concluded the agreement and today these count to 82 participants. the duty free treatment given by the ita participants has played an important role in the enormous development and expansion of trade that the it sector has experienced over the close to 20 years of application of the ita annual trade in 201 products valued at over usd 1.3 trillion per year, and accounts for approximately 10% of total global trade today. taking into consideration that the eu exports eur 189 billion in products covered by the ita expansion, a figure that is expected to increase significantly following tariff cuts; the agreement will lead to lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who depend on imported components. i agree with the scope of the report which will lead to the majority of the non-sensitive tariffs to be eliminated at the entry into force of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this initiative since the expanded ita should boost the eu manufacturing sector and will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries. this landmark deal was one of the significant outcomes from the nairobi ministerial meeting. it aims to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products valued at over usd 1.3 trillion per year.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation due to its goal of furthering development of trade and economic growth in the it sector.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products valued at over usd 1.3 trillion per year. negotiations on the expanded information technology agreement of 1996 (ita) were conducted by 53 wto members, including both developed and developing countries, which account for approximately 90 per cent of world trade in these products. however, all wto members will benefit from the agreement, as they will all enjoy duty-free market access to the markets of the members eliminating tariffs on these products. the expanded ita should boost the eu manufacturing sector, allowing easier access to new markets; like its 1996-predecessor it should continue to promote jobs, offer lower prices to consumers and boost economic growth and foster innovation. it will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries. it is possible that there will be another update of ita in 2018. i hope that when negotiations reopen then, progress would be made in reducing non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the new psychoactive substance, α-pvp, needs to undergo strict control measures across all member states. the council rightly underlined the risk associated with its use and called for control to ensure safety of its clinical application.
in writing. ‒ i understand that α-pvp, like other psychostimulants, can cause a condition called ‘excited delirium’ that involves hyper stimulation, paranoia, and hallucinations. it has been reported that α-pvp has been a significant contributory cause of death in suicides and overdoses caused by combinations of drugs. i therefore support a health friendly approach and agree to depart from the text approved by parliament asking the council to consult parliament again if it intends to substantially amend the text approved by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a council decision to call upon the member states to subject the recreational drug known as α-pvp to control measures and criminal proceedings. currently, sixteen member states control α-pvp under national legislation complying with the un convention on psychotropic substances and five member states use other legislative measures to control it. subjecting this substance to control measures across the european union would help avoid the emergence of obstacles in cross-border law enforcement and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because of the public health risks this stimulant poses to eu citizens and in order to combat organised crime within our union resulting from trade of such substances.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because my overarching objective is the reduction of the use of these kind of substances. currently, sixteen member states control α-pvp under national legislation complying with the obligations of the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances and five member states use other legislative measures to control it. subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would help avoid the emergence of obstacles in cross-border law enforcement and judicial cooperation, and would help protect from the risks that its availability and use can pose. taking into account the above, the new proposed approach will include expanding the proposed directive based on article 83 tfeu with the provisions on information exchange, introduction of two categories of risk that the substance can pose (‘risk’ allowing to take further action at eu level and ‘no risk’ stopping further actions at eu level). in the event that the substance will be assessed harmful (‘risk’), the substance will be subject to the permanent control measure in the form of an eu-wide obligation to declare the substance illegal on the national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and i give my consent to the ratification of the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. i welcome the fact that it states clearly who is to be responsible for any damage done to the environment while the hazardous and noxious substances (nhs) are being transported. i believe that the convention helps ensure the security of the sea and it provides better protection for any victims of such accidents. i am particularly satisfied with the proposal of consistent application of the rules across the eu considering the global scale of the issue at stake.
in writing. ‒ i agree with putting strict liability of the ship-owner to be in possession of mandatory insurance to cover damages to third parties. this puts in place a right of direct recourse of persons suffering damages against the insurer, limitation of liability and, in the case of oil and hazardous and noxious substances, a special compensation fund that pays for damages when these exceed the liability limits of the ship-owner. the ‘polluter pays’ principle and the principles of prevention and precaution to the effect that preventive action should be taken in case of possible environmental damage needs to be taken into account and falls squarely within the union policy and general principles regarding the environment. i agree with the removal of the permanent co-existence of two maritime liability regimes – a union-based one and an international one – which would result in the fragmentation of union legislation. the clear channelling of liability could save on lengthy and costly legal proceedings to the detriment of victims and the shipping industry.
in writing. ‒ in line with the rest of my group i am in favour of adopting measures for victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous substances more swiftly but i also agree that the council should make sure that it is not creating legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states. the ratification of the 2010 protocol provides for improved protection of the victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances (hns) by sea, but there are divisions in terms of the period in which that should be done. in order to put pressure on the council to amend its decision in a way that would ask for the uniform ratification of this convention and bring clarity as regards its applicability, parliament drafted this interim report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in order to provide a uniform and comprehensive legislative protocol for compensation to those adversely affected by these substances. this report is essential to ensuring proper responses by those liable for damage done by hazardous and noxious substances while in eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because, as today, there is nothing under the environmental liability directive to provide for compensation of victims in excess of the limits of the ship owner’s liability. furthermore, the existing legal framework in the eu lacks a mandatory insurance requirement, whereas the convention specifically establishes this obligation for ship owners coupled with a right of claimants for direct action against the insurer. i believe it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea, which can only be achieved if parliament’s recommendations are duly considered by the council and the commission. i believe that report should not be seen as an impediment to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair fashion, without impairing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparity for the victims of pollution (e.g. coastal communities, fishermen, etc.) and the shipping industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and i believe that the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances (hns) by sea with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters should also be ratified and entered into force across the eu. i especially welcome the polluter pays principle here and greater protection for the victims of any hns leakages. i am particularly satisfied with the proposal of consistent application of the rules across the eu considering the more globalised sea transportation.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention). the ratification of the 2010 protocol provides for improved protection of the victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hns by sea, but there are divisions in terms of the period in which that should be done. in order to put pressure on the council to amend its decision in a way that would ask for the uniform ratification of this convention and bring clarity as regards its applicability, parliament drafted this interim report which i supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as there is a need for uniform legislature on both compensation and legal procedures in cases related to damage caused by the misuse or mishandling of potentially dangerous substances. this report establishes a uniform regime for judicial procedure and compensation for cases relating to parties liable for damage from pollution.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to conclusion of this protocol because croatia should participate in the partnership and cooperation agreement between eu and the philippines as soon as possible. croatia, just as all other member states, will benefit a lot from this coordinated relationship with the philippines.
in writing. ‒ this framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states and the republic of the philippines will take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i agree with the scope and the proposal to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the republic of the philippines for approval.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement between the eu and the republic of the philippines, specifically in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this is a procedural vote and hence i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because of the benefits in trade and development that come from comprehensive cooperation with the philippines. it is important that croatia, as a new member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with regard to the accession of croatia, because i am in agreement with the text of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the proposed protocol incorporates croatia as contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to providing the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and to give consent for the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership between the eu and the republic of the philippines. it will allow us for greater cooperation in many fields such as countering terrorism, migration, taxation or human rights and it is bound to be of great benefit to both parties.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the scope of the report and its proposal to forward our position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the republic of the philippines, for a conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the republic of the philippines. this is seen as a tool through which the eu encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution due to the economic benefits relating to a cohesive partnership with the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation because i am in agreement to conclude the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i welcome the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation which stresses the importance of the philippines as a partner of the european union. among others, the eu should continue assisting the philippines in tackling social problems and enhancing national capacity. i am also looking forward to more information exchange and research sharing for the benefit of both parties.
in writing. ‒ i agree with providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law. other aspects of mutual interest are the promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and the implementation of effective policies to tackle climate change. the baseline principle of the agreement should remain that of encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights. i agree we need to establish safe trade routes, and encourages confidence-building measures to engage in bilateral and multilateral cooperation in order to effectively contribute to security not just in the philippines but also in the region. i support the call for investment in new technologies and the internet in order to promote cultural exchange and trade among the islands and the consideration that the eu should further develop people-to-people exchanges of students, academics and scientific researchers, as well as cultural exchanges.
in writing. ‒ this report includes a motion for a resolution on the conclusion, of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. as a global force for the upholding of human rights and as a leader in supporting developing states, it has always been part of eu’s ethos to support such countries and their population. hence i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i choose to support this resolution in order to further expand the relationship between the eu and the philippines and continue the union’s connection with the philippines as a major trade partner and investor. this framework benefits citizens of the eu through increased opportunities for trade between the philippines and member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, which encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights. the resolution calls on the philippine government to build capacity in the field of systematic data collection on human trafficking, and calls for the eu and its member states to support the government, and notably the inter-agency council against trafficking (iacat), in the efforts being made to enhance assistance and support for victims, to put into place efficient law enforcement measures, improve the legal avenues of work labour migration, and ensure decent treatment of filipino migrants in third countries. it also calls for the eu and its member states to engage with the philippines in order to exchange intelligence, cooperate and provide support for the government’s capacity building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism in relation to fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to show my support to the democratic transition in tunisia and agree to provide more macro-financial assistance as quickly as possible. we have witnessed tunisia’s notable achievement in democracy reform from many aspects including politics, economy, and foreign affairs. it is a pity to see tunisia to be the victim of terrorist attacks. i believe our financial support can help the government overcome current challenges and effectively preserve the recent achievements, especially for the people of tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of financially supporting tunisia as part of its transition to democracy and towards being a stable country. the eu wants to see tunisia’s economic and social development continue and therefore supports this latest tranche of macro-financial assistance (mfa), which is a form of financial aid extended by the eu to partner countries experiencing a balance-of-payments crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution due to tunisia’s development as a democratic nation. the stabilisation of tunisia through the use of macro-financial assistance is necessary to ensure that terrorism in the area is tackled and people are protected.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which supports this measure as a way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy, bring about an environment more conducive to investment and urgently address unemployment. tunisia has succeeded in consolidating its democratic transition. it now has a constitution that safeguards rights and freedoms, with a consolidated judicial system and empowered media. it is led by a broad unity government that emerged from free and transparent elections, with an enterprising and modern civil society, and has rightly been rewarded with the nobel peace prize for the tunisian national dialogue quartet. despite all challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress, firmly establishing democratic transition in the country, carrying out the reforms needed to modernise its economy and bolstering its relations with its partners, in particular the european union, with which it is currently negotiating a free-trade agreement. it is most important that tunisia should succeed – that it should thwart all those who seek to destabilise it. for that reason, the eu must show solidarity and resolve to help and back tunisia in its development process through very tangible actions directly benefiting the population of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i oppose uniform tax regimes across the eu. i would like to call for attention to various economy features in different member states when drawing up tax resolutions at eu level. a common set of rules cannot fit for all markets and smaller economies are more vulnerable in this situation which i consider to be unfair. in line with the fight against aggressive tax planning, i suggest tailored tax rulings that empower the member states to set up national amendments flexibly. i do, however, support sharing information about national tax rulings to ensure tax transparency among the member states.
in writing. ‒ when dealing with taxation i am always in favour of having proper tax transparency rules and boosting our fight against tax abuse and tax avoidance. however this should not automatically mean that there should be tax harmonisation or tax convergence, including also the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). not all eu member states have the same economic realities, and small economies face different economic realities, different market sizes and resources which differ greatly from the larger economies. that is why i continue to believe that small economies require flexibility to help them counteract the disadvantages which they would otherwise face. reducing the tax flexibility of such economies would further increase their disparities, which is unfair, dysfunctional and unacceptable. tax matters should remain an issue of national competence which can help reflect these different realities. if this does not happen, small economies like malta will end up carrying the greatest burden. for these reasons i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report sends an important political message that we will learn lessons from the panama papers and take action. this comprehensive report combats aggressive and abusive behaviour, which our citizens expect us to clamp down upon. it is essential that we manage to do this without impinging on the tax sovereignty of member states. i therefore supported the report, but voted against any amendments that go in the way of impinging on tax sovereignty or tax harmonisation. tax harmonisation would have a disproportionate effect on smaller economies like malta and i will maintain my stand against such measures.
in writing. ‒ as far as taxation at eu level is concerned, i have always been in favour of transparency, coordination and exchange of information including on an automatic basis. i welcome measures proposed by the commission targeting abuse, enhancing transparency and addressing instances of harmful tax competition in the area of corporate taxation as promulgated by international standards. however, i am not in favour of a move towards an eu-wide basis to introduce tax convergence and harmonisation in direct tax matters and the creation of a set of common rules for all countries in the same manner without allowing an element of flexibility. and this particular proposal, despite its primary objective of laying down rules against tax avoidance practices, is going beyond what is permitted by the eu treaties. it is important to keep in mind that small economies do not face the same economic realities, market conditions, geographical proximity or resources as big economies, therefore they need flexibility in tax policy, as a one-size-fits-all approach can put them at a disadvantage. the element of flexibility is even present in a series of actions recommended by the oecd which in my opinion is missing in this proposal, therefore i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ my vote against this report follows on similar votes on the same subject in past months. i fully understand the need to control the wide range of practices by which taxes are being evaded by individuals and companies, large and small, as revealed by luxleaks and the panama papers scandal. i support all measures meant to increase transparency in taxation affairs. but such measures should not end up infringing the existing right of eu member states to retain sovereignty over their tax systems. it seems to me that the proposals made in this report open the door fully to further follow-ups that can only lead to tax harmonisation within the eu. with this i cannot agree, for it would serve to increase the growing structural divergences between the central eu economy and the small peripheral economies of the european union. for these economies, taxation policy (which they still control) is the only real tool left by which to retain flexibility for competitive purposes. all others they have given up (customs protection, budgetary flexibility in public budgeting, the setting of vat and excise, state-aid policy, exchange rate). moves towards harmonisation of income and profit taxes will only further undermine their competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because the already conducted investigation by the european parliament’s committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs into the alleged transportation and illegal detention of prisoners by the central intelligence agency of the united states in some of the member states of the european union has not resulted in any new conclusions that would change the already existing state of affairs. i do not agree that any further investigations could change anything and i believe that this case should be closed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that real democracies should never breach citizens’ fundamental rights or international law and should never resort to enhanced interrogation techniques or torture for whatever reasons. the events of 9/11 and the war on terrorism have given rise to an atmosphere which has allowed for the violation of europe’s human rights principles in the name of security. while the safety of our citizens should be at the forefront of our priorities, it is essential that we recognise that the european union is based on a clear set of values, and we should not allow these to be undermined in any way.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which repeats its call on the usa to continue to investigate and prosecute the multiple human rights violations resulting from the cia rendition and secret detention programmes led by the previous us administration, and to cooperate with all requests from eu member states for information, extradition or effective remedies for victims in connection with the cia programme. the resolution encourages the us ssci to publish its study of the cia’s detention and interrogation programme in full and underlines the fundamental conclusion reached by the us senate that the violent and illegal methods applied by the cia failed to generate intelligence that prevented further terrorist attacks. the resolution also recalls its absolute condemnation of torture and enforced disappearance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i fully support the development of a common space policy for the european union which should aim to improve our research and new technologies in this area but also contribute significantly to our security and economy. i welcome the development of our own autonomous space programmes, galileo and copernicus and i hope for great progress in our space policies in the future and i support the plans to develop our own european launchers.
in writing. ‒ i reckon that security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response. i support the call for an eu common security and defence policy to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantee of the safety of eu citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values. this will enhance its cooperation and coordination with the north atlantic treaty organisation and with the united states, which both remain warrantors of europe’s security and stability, with the united nations, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, the african union, and other neighbours and regional partners. i also consider that space surveillance and tracking (sst) should become an eu programme with its own budget while ensuring that the funds for ongoing projects are not thereby reduced because i believe the eu should develop a more holistic space situational awareness (ssa) capacity with more predictive capabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a unified eu effort using the eu’s space capabilities to confront terrorist attacks, hybrid war and mass murder and also to assist in humanitarian missions. in europe’s case space capabilities can be used for example, to better assess and identify the flow of illegal immigrants and their routes, and, in the case of those coming from northern africa, to identify the ship-boarding areas in order to engage with them faster and save more lives. i believe that space policy is an essential component of the strategic autonomy which the eu must develop in order to safeguard sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am for this report due to europe’s unique opportunity to further develop our domestic and international security through the development of space technologies. this report has the dual benefits of increasing the security of the eu and further economic and scientific development.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks, hybrid war and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response at all levels, including by developing the space capabilities. these security challenges call for the strengthening of the eu’s security through the continued development and support of the eu common security and defence policy to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantee of the safety of eu citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values as enshrined in article 21 teu. space capabilities, in europe case, the satellites could be used, for example, to better assess and identify the flow of illegal immigrants and their routes, and, in the case of those coming from northern africa, to identify the ship-boarding areas in order to engage with them faster and save more lives. space policy is an essential component of the strategic autonomy which the eu must develop in order to safeguard sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and independent capabilities to carry out assessments.
in writing. ‒ eu space activities are important for the overall development of scientific progress while also stimulating innovation, new and diverse employment opportunities and industrial competitiveness. it is an untapped market that has the potential for growth and development to benefit not only research and development but global communities through the use of specific tools such as satellite navigation, earth observation and communication services established through satellite implementation. all of these new technologies could not only benefit european union policies, but also the daily lives of european citizens if the eu works towards maximising the socio-economic benefits of eu space programmes. for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for more development in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion because of the benefits that come from the recommendations suggests concerning the development of europe’s space market. through the removal of technical and market barriers, increased availability of financial resources and expertise, and a new, forward-thinking development strategy, this motion is a catalyst for european economic and technological development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that stresses serious political and social crisis in venezuela and outlines measures to tackle the current problems. i agree that the government of venezuela should rethink its actions which undermine democracy, the rule of law and most importantly human rights. the economic situation of venezuela is very serious, but i still believe that the unfolding social and political crises can still be reversed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to express my concern over the deteriorating situation in venezuela, due to the increasing climate of political and social instability. the allegations of the use of state power to undermine the rule of law are worrying, and while recognising the development that venezuela has made in the recent years, it is essential that mediation efforts between the various stakeholders are enabled in order to ensure democratic stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion due to the importance of determining a resolution for venezuela’s violations of both human rights and rule of law. the government of venezuela must respect the universal human rights of its citizens, as requested by this motion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which calls on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of the separation of powers and recalls that separation and non-interference between equally legitimate powers is an essential principle of democratic states guided by the rule of law. the resolution urges the venezuelan government to release all political prisoners immediately and recalls that the freeing of political prisoners is a precondition set by the opposition for starting the negotiation talks, and calls on both sides to agree on a compromise solution aimed at supporting the mediation efforts currently in place. it also calls for the eu and the vp/hr to urge the release of the political prisoners and those arbitrarily detained, in line with the demands made by several un bodies and international organisations and with the amnesty and national reconciliation law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because action is urgently needed by the commission to specify scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances which were to be adopted over two years ago. such lack of action is all the more serious given the scientifically proven, negative effects on human health of those substances with such endocrine-disrupting properties.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the commission needs to act urgently and fulfil its legal obligations. the commission had to identify and ban endocrine disrupting substances back in december 2013. more than two and a half years have passed but the commission failed to act. this was confirmed also by a judgement of the european court of justice in december 2015. even though the commission politically committed itself to propose scientific criteria to determine which properties are endocrine disruptive, before this summer it has not lived up to its commitment. our citizens’ health should be a priority for the commission and hence i share the call made in this joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, as it is critical that the commission complies with the court on establishing the scientific criteria for studying endocrine disruptors, as the matter is one of the public health and well-being of the citizens of the eu. there can be no compromise when it comes to the protection of health of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have voted all in favour of the report, which calls on the commission to comply with the general court ruling by submitting strict criteria for endocrine disruptors based on science and not on socio-economic considerations. it is unacceptable that the institution that should be a guardian of the treaties is evidently and bluntly in breach of eu law. the resolution strongly condemns continuous and incomprehensible delays in defining clear rules on chemicals which are believed to cause many serious diseases. last but not least, it takes note of the commission’s political commitment to propose scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties before the summer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes the commission to withdraw the approval of the sales of goods produced from genetically modified maize. researches have shown the potential of causing cancers by such products. i therefore suggest revoking authorisation of genetically modified maize to protect public health.
in writing. ‒ i object to the commission’s decision to authorise on the market products consisting of genetically modified maize particularly since we are dealing with maize that is tolerant to certain including glyphosate. this authorisation is really untimely since there was not even a qualified majority of member state in favour of reauthorising this herbicide which is possibly carcinogenic and possibly an endocrine disruptor.
in writing. ‒ i choose to support this objection as it is essential that the council does not overstep its powers by introducing legislation without the opinions or feedback of member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised since they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account. that is why i have objected to the commission’s decision to authorise on the market products consisting of genetically-modified maize, especially when we are dealing with maize that is tolerant to certain including glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes the commission to withdraw the approval of the sales of genetically-modified carnation. the reason is that previous authorisation fails to consider the potential negative long-term impact on the environment and public health.
in writing. ‒ i object to the commission decision since the decision making process concerning the authorisation of gmos is not a democratic process. the special committee rarely reaches a qualified majority but nonetheless the european commission moves on with the authorisation and many times without the support of the member states or the majority of the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i choose to support this objection as it is essential that the council does not overstep its powers by introducing legislation that goals concerning environmental and public health protections laid out by previous directives.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not fulfil the objective of health and environment protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive. the reasons include the fact that carnation petals can be eaten as garnish, and efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the intentional consumption of gm carnations by humans. additionally, propagation, as well as spread of the pollen of this gm carnation to wild dianthus species would be possible. the carnation is resistant to sulfonylurea herbicides. these herbicides, according to pan uk, were highly toxic to plants at very low doses and their wide-spread use could have a negative impact on the productivity of non-target crops and the make-up of natural plant communities and wildlife food chains. finally, sulfonylurea are common treatments for management of type 2 diabetes and are associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular events compared with other antidiabetic drugs. creating a market for sulfonylurea resistant plants will encourage the worldwide use of this antidiabetic medicine as a herbicide, with possible detrimental effects on biodiversity and chemical contamination of drinking water.
mr president, modern administration facilitates access to services and removes administrative formalities which, after all, are outdated and disproportionate mechanisms when talking about the 'digital single market'. the council is hardly showing that it realises that today's life is aided by digital measures that facilitate the movement of citizens from one state to another. i ask you: why should this regulation apply only to certificates of personal status and not to certificates of study? we know that many citizens who move from one member state to another need their certificates to be able to settle in another member state. we also know that we have directives that set out processes for the recognition of citizens' education and also procedures for professionals to establish themselves in other member states. so i really ask: so why not facilitate the process of presenting these certificates in another country? the position taken by the council also does not alleviate red tape for businesses. at a time when the european union insists that the economy can grow greatly and create better jobs for citizens if we succeed in incentivising businesses to operate 'across borders' and in a common market, it is contradictory not to take the opportunity with this regulation and remove red tape that discourages business instead of helping it. simplification does not mean less certainty or security in public documents. digital tools allow us certainty and security, as well as efficiency.
in recent months, we have all been through difficult times as a result of the terrorist attacks in europe. european citizens have responded to these attacks with a determination to continue living life as normal. we must remain vigilant. life goes on but the threat of further attacks remains with us and so we must all do our part to reduce the possibilities of similar and new attacks. law enforcement agencies need to have all the means they need to respond to any threats that arise. it cannot be that these are steps backwards from someone who has a plan to carry out a terrorist attack. one of the lessons we have learned as a result of the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels is that the exchange of information between agencies is not as efficient and effective as we expected and needed. we know that a lot of information exists, that a lot of information is being collected, but the systems used vary from country to country and so efficiency is reduced. it is unacceptable to do nothing and not make better arrangements. it is necessary to make the exchange of information without compatibility difficulties from systems such as sis, vis, eurodac, ecris a reality. at the same time, we want law enforcement authorities and european agencies to have access to this information. of course, all the necessary safeguards must be in place to protect data, but we cannot accept the status quo or foot-dragging. i conclude: we must remain at the forefront of the fight against terrorism and with initiatives designed to enhance efficiency, organisation and the security of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the measures which are outlined in it will make the lives of the citizens of the european union much easier by simplifying a number of procedures related to the use of certain public documents. taking the mobility of european union citizens into account, removing the administrative process associated with certain public documents promotes effective communication and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of making formalities easier for citizens who move across borders to alleviate problems with the cross-border application of tax law, social insurance law and others which deter many citizens from taking the plunge and moving to another member state. to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union it does not affect recognition of the content of public documents, particularly out of a concern to preserve the sovereignty of the member states with regard to family law. i agree that we need to face administrative difficulties when presenting the necessary public documents to the authorities of another member state, for example because they have moved across a border which require the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned, something which is also catered for in the report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this regulation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the eu. the regulation covers all civil status documents and certain other documents that are often required by members of the public, concerning for example residence, nationality and absence of a criminal record. parliament had significantly strengthened the proposal at its first reading, while the council took a very cautious approach. while it always make sense to abolish more formalities and cut bureaucratic burdens for european citizens, it is also important to see that all rules and safeguards are respected, hence i supported this balanced approach by voting against the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, as it seeks to simplify one of our fundamental freedoms. free movement across the european union is essential to economic development, tourism and strengthening the multi-layered connections between citizens of different member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it does not affect recognition of the content of public documents. the regulation covers all civil status documents and certain other documents that are often required by citizens, concerning for example residence, nationality and absence of a criminal record. for these public documents, the regulation exempts from legalisation and apostille, which are two administrative formalities traditionally required for public documents issued by another country. simplified acceptance measures are also laid down with regard to certified copies and certified translations. last but not least, the regulation also provides for the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned. that is why i have supported this regulation by voting against the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as part of the reform of the european court of justice. among other matters, it proposes to increase the number of judges at the general court to 56. to cope with the reform of the court of justice, i believe that allowing each member state having two judges at the general court promotes better legislation in the eu. i am especially content with the proposal of accordingly amendments that aim to build a more consistent judicial system.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the repeal of the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, along with a small number of consequential amendments and transitional provisions. by amending provisions, it intends to make things clearer. i agree with the establishment of the office of vice-president of the court of justice and the amendment of the rules relating to the composition and the way the grand chamber operates. i understand that the large member states wanted them to be appointed on merit; however small member states require a rotation system which ensures our countries, in turn, two judges at the court to cope with increased workload. this should be kept in consideration in view of forthcoming developments.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with a regulation that is a mere follow-up to the third regulation reforming the court of justice. in parallel with the second step in the increase in the number of judges at the general court, from 40 to 47, the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges, is to be abolished. in this process the european parliament took the opportunity to again highlight the importance which it attaches to gender balance amongst the judges at the courts of the european union. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it addresses the need for reform within the court of justice. this report increases the functionality and fairness of the court of justice system, especially relating to the civil service tribunal and the general court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation which is the fourth relating to the reform of the court of justice. the third reform concerned an increase in the number of judges at the general court to 56. this increase was subject to the condition that the civil service tribunal be abolished, with civil service disputes transferred back to the general court. the present regulation is therefore a follow-up to the third regulation reforming the court of justice. in parallel with the second step on the increase in the number of judges at the general court, from 40 to 47, the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges, is to be abolished. the court of justice’s proposal merely proposes the repeal of the legal provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, along with a small number of consequential amendments and transitional provisions concerning the transfer of ongoing cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is a very concrete regulation for the purpose of establishing an integrated european union administration. in view of the frequent intercourse within the eu, people are exposed to the european union’s agencies dealing with various issues. it is necessary to define obligations and rights clearly to avoid misunderstanding within the agencies. i believe that a good eu administration will deepen the relationship and positively affect the european economy through efficient collaboration among the institutions.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is pushing for a legislative proposal regulating the administrative procedures of the eu in order to provide citizens with legal certainty and guarantees when dealing with the eu bodies. this proposal represents an important step towards ensuring better administration and greater transparency as regards the eu institutions, as well as legal certainty and predictability as regards citizens. people are many times not fully aware of their rights in their relations to the eu bodies and the process going on at the level of the eu administration remains opaque and difficult to understand. because i believe that creating a set of rules for administrative procedures would help tackle this issue and bring the eu administration closer to people, i voted in favour of this resolution
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion. the administration of the european union must emphasise transparency and capability, avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy. this motion helps ensure a more productive and clear union for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which requests the commission to submit, on the basis of article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure. such a regulation should aim to guarantee the right to good administration by means of an open, efficient and independent administration based on a european law of administrative procedure applying to the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies (collectively ‘the union’s administration ’) in their relations with the public. its scope should therefore be limited to direct administration; it should codify the fundamental principles of good administration and should regulate the procedure to be followed by the union’s administration when handling individual cases to which a natural or legal person is a party and other situations where an individual has direct or personal contact with the union’s administration; and it should include a universal set of principles and lay down a procedure applicable as a de minimis rule where no lex specialis exists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it proposes promising measures that help the reform of the rail supply industry – a crucial component of our market. currently, our rail companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have to confront very competitive rivals from third countries and are in need of assistance for upgrading. i believe financial and technical support can effectively build a greener and more competitive rail industry, which will definitely boost the development of tourism, transportation and business.
in writing. ‒ because, while malta does not have trains and the manufacturing industry for trains is not a major player in our economy, i still believe that the strength of the european economy as a whole is important to us all as a community, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as competitiveness is essential to europe’s single market. the motion ensures europe’s leadership in the rail industry, supports smes through investment and the protection of a fair market, and promotes economic growth throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, intended as input to the commission’s upcoming strategy on space policy, which is expected in autumn 2016. it aims to ensure that parliament’s priorities (safeguarding europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on the global markets, with independent access to space for europe and a level playing field for the industry) are pursued in the forthcoming commission document. it highlights, inter alia, the need to focus the new strategy on market uptake of space data and services, so as to maximise socio-economic benefits from the eu’s space programmes; the need to take account of the regional dimension, with support for an increased role for regional and local authorities; and the need to step up awareness-raising efforts in order to promote the potential of european space programmes to the public and private sectors and end users.
author. – mr president, i will speak on behalf of parliament’s committee on civil liberties justice and home affairs (libe). article 218 of the lisbon treaty strengthened parliament’s role in the conclusion of international agreements, generalising the application of the consent procedure and providing that parliament is to receive enhanced information in the process leading to the conclusion of an agreement. the framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission details these provisions in paragraph 23 and 24 and, in particular, in annex 3, as further confirmed by the rulings of the court of justice of the european union, for example in case c-658/2011, parliament v. council. this case law has made clear that parliament’s right to be informed is not limited to requests for information made just by parliament, but obliges the other institutions to take the initiative. in september 2014, in the written answers to the questionnaire in the preparation of the hearing on the selection process for commissioners, commissioner avramopoulos referred to his intention to keep the libe committee fully informed on the negotiations on international agreements, according to the treaty provisions and in line with the framework agreement. the libe committee welcomes the information it has received from the commission services further to its request. however, we understand that the practical implementation of these treaty provisions could be further improved, and this on the basis of article 218(10). so under this framework, in this regard, the libe committee asks the commission to kindly reply to the following questions. first, what measures does the commission intend to take to fully live up to the treaty provisions and the case law in order to improve the current system of informing parliament on the negotiations of international agreements, thereby guaranteeing that the required information is automatically transmitted to parliament in an exhaustive manner and this at all stages of the procedure? second, how does the commission aim to ensure that the regular transmission of all relevant information on negotiations contains, at the minimum, indications as to the third country in question, the type of agreement, the stage of procedure and the relevant documents, such as those mentioned in point 5 of annex 3 of the framework agreement? is the commission preparing to set up a permanent mechanism in order to strengthen parliament’s role in this very crucial and sensitive area? and lastly, in the particular case of concluded eu readmission agreements, how is the commission planning to report to the libe committee, which it should do at least twice a year as per the commission declaration annexed to the european parliament recommendation on the readmission agreement with pakistan?
allow me first to add my voice in tribute to jo cox, a tough mother of two who got into politics to make a difference for all the right reasons, and who was so brutally killed while doing her duty. i know all of us here would want to ensure that her legacy in fighting hate is preserved. we must do what we can to find the right balance between allowing our freedoms and ensuring citizens’ safety. one of the hardest lessons learned from the attacks in europe was that our information-sharing capabilities are still not being fully utilised. europe cannot afford to play catch-up. radicalisation, whether online or on land, is one of the toughest challenges our enforcement agencies face. we need europol to have the resources it needs, and we need to come down harder on those who preach hate and use religion as a disguise for their message of evil. it is not only law enforcement. we also need a new approach to integration in our societies, where we see this as a two-way process of respect for people’s rights but also respect for european values. work to overcome obstacles to revoking passports of so-called ‘foreign fighters’ – particularly dual nationals who travel to conflict zones before coming back to europe to radicalise and recruit – must continue. they do not deserve any protection an eu passport may give them. if the horrific attack in orlando showed anything it is that terrorism knows no borders, no nations. it is a global struggle that requires a global partnership for its defeat. notwithstanding the horror of the crime in florida, the worst of times brought out the best in people who stood up, scared but undeterred, and shouted that while today we mourn, in the end, love always wins over hate, and those voices echoed around the world. it is this that will be the lasting tribute to the victims of terror everywhere. terrorism may well still cast its shadow on our lives. it will not however define us. it is the determination to continue to live our lives as we see fit, despite apprehension, that will show the true character of europe.
madam president, only in the last plenary this parliament voted in favour of decreasing bureaucracy for union citizens, especially when exercising their right to free movement and establishment, when we voted in a system of recognition of public documents. tomorrow, with parliament’s vote – i hope in favour – on mr cavada’s reports, international couples in the eu will obtain a clearer framework within which they can manage their property. to date, international couples at their most vulnerable moments in their personal lives – that is upon the demise of a spouse or partner, or the dissolution of their marriage or partnership – have been burdened even further by complex legal rules regulating which courts could determine issues relating to their property regimes and which law should apply. often, after obtaining a decision on divorce, separation or dissolution of a partnership, the couple have needed to institute separate and distinct proceedings in another jurisdiction to have issues related to their property regime determined. these two proposals for council regulations on enhanced cooperation will ensure clarity and certainty. couples will enjoy simplified procedures so that if they are involved in divorce, separation or succession proceedings, it will be the same court ruling on these proceedings that will determine issues related to their property regimes. couples will no longer need to institute proceedings in different states and get embroiled in complex legal issues to obtain justice. laws should be there to assist citizens in obtaining access to a remedy and to a judicial determination. these proposals will ensure just that.
governments often boast of increases in annual budgets for education, which is good, but we know that the most important aspect of education is the quality of learning. teachers work in an environment that reflects the diversity of today's society with its challenges. certainly, teachers, for the most part, are a silent driving force in addressing these challenges and helping to build a fairer society and a stronger europe. so who is focusing on how to provide teachers with what they need? their respect, trust, support and continuous professional development. how much are we investing in our teachers, across all sectors of education and throughout their professional careers? we take it for granted that teachers will cooperate, but we need to invest more in our teachers so that they are frontrunners in the realisation of the society and europe we are aspiring to. the main focus of the education and training strategy should not be solely on employment and employability of people. it should also focus on how to support teachers. we have to let teachers be teachers. we want to empower teachers to be creative, innovative and professional in their work. in the strategy, the european union shall push forward the member states to: 1. to provide quality continuing training for teachers, 2. create structures that give the necessary support to teachers and trust them to appropriately address the diversity of skills and abilities that their students present to them, 3. eliminate administrative red tape so that teachers can focus their energy on teaching, 4. provide teachers with the means and educational material to effectively facilitate learning, 5. and recognise that a teacher is working overtime in the classroom. most importantly, we recognise that teachers are key partners in the investment of human capital, education, and that we all agree that it is the best investment for a fairer society and a stronger europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the list of members who will sit on the committee tasked with investigating alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. this committee has been set up as a response to the panama papers revelations. i believe that even with the tougher eu anti-money laundering laws adopted last year the manoeuvring in particular of politicians strongly suspected of corruption and money laundering would have remained undetected without the panama papers leak. addressing these loopholes must be the focus of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointments to the committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration. it is now up to the committee to ensure a fair process which properly addresses the allegations of maladministration of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these appointments and i am proud to form part of the committee. it is critical to have a comprehensive and dedicated team of meps to examine violations of european union law and alleged corrupt practices uncovered in several information leaks known as the ‘panama papers’.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and the republic of lebanon. it contains principles and standards in financial and technical fields that apply to the member states and other participating eu neighbourhood policy partners. this agreement provides lebanon with an easier access to take part in certain eu programmes and activities as well as receiving financial support. both the eu and lebanon will benefit from further cooperation and a strengthened partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol since this provides the right tools for the eu to reform, modernise and promote a seamless transition in the european union’s neighbourhood and for lebanon to participate in community agencies and community programmes. the aim of the european neighbourhood policy to achieve political and economic integration with the southern and eastern countries is crucially important. it is very important that lebanon is given support through a strengthened relationship with the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol because of the inclusive practices that are established in this framework. participation by the republic of lebanon in european union programmes will have benefits in terms of economic development in both the eu and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population. the eu is interested in fostering stability in lebanon, developing capabilities and promoting people-to-people contacts and the transfer of expertise.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and the republic of lebanon on the principles and standards for the participation of lebanon in certain eu programmes in order to take into account the 2004 enlargement of the eu. i welcome this agreement which will be of benefit to both sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol to include the 10 new member states (2004 enlargement) in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon, taking into account the changes outlined in the treaty of lisbon. the protocol reflects the eu’s commitment to support lebanon in sustainably addressing the consequences of regional instability, a refugee crisis and a presidential vacuum.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this protocol which establishes an association between the eu community and the republic of lebanon, as a well-defined framework for said association is necessary for both parties to work with each other to achieve goals of development and a more interconnected world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population. the eu is interested in fostering stability in lebanon, developing capabilities and promoting people-to-people contacts and the transfer of expertise. there was broad consensus at committee level on the necessity to engage lebanon more actively. the vote updates the agreement by taking account of the enlargement of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and the republic of lebanon on the principles and standards for the participation of lebanon in certain eu programmes. the purpose is to include bulgaria and romania in the agreement given their accession into the european union. they will certainly benefit from further cooperation and strengthened partnership with lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol to include bulgaria and romania in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. i believe that the aim of the european neighbourhood policy to achieve political and economic integration with the southern and eastern countries is extremely important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the inclusion of bulgaria and romania enhances the internal market and renews movement towards better trade relations between member states and associated members.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, which is important with regard of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that approves the conclusion of the amending protocol to the agreement between the eu and monaco. this protocol will enable automatic information exchange of financial accounts between the two parties in order to fight tax fraud and tax evasion through transparent policies and in line with eu legislation. i welcome this development, which will surely enhance and develop our cooperation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between eu and monaco to provide the automatic exchange of financial account information. i believe that this is an important step forward when taking into account the importance of automatic exchange of information as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, an issue that has also been recognised at the international level.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this agreement as it aims to bolster international tax cooperation and combat tax evasion. this agreement seeks an efficient upholding of the current international tax system, and therefore does not damage smes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the eu-monaco agreement because this agreement is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the three manufacturing enterprises in the hainaut region of belgium in order to aid the workers who lost their jobs because of the major structural changes in world trade patterns. the decrease in investment and the rise in steel prices have hit the european the manufacturing of construction machinery hard, leading to redundant workers who are at risk of long-term unemployment and social exclusion. i am confident that the activation of the fund can effectively help these individuals find new jobs through professional training and guidance.
in writing. ‒ as a general rule, the egf can be used only where over 500 workers are made redundant by a single company, or if a large number of workers are laid off in a particular sector. i voted in favour of this report as the eligibility for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund is met and as i believe in helping redundant workers integrate back in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because it is essential to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in support for a detailed and integrated multiannual recovery plan that aims to rebuild the stocks for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. under scrupulous fishing restrictions, our fishermen have made considerable efforts in reducing catches in order for the market to return to a healthy level. the efforts have paid back and the rapporteur proposes to incorporate all related recovery plans into a regulation in order to ensure that there is uniformity in eu legislation. moreover, i agree that the regulation should also apply to foreign fleets, otherwise their efforts will be less effective and discriminatory against our fishermen. i therefore encourage holding international negotiations for the purpose of protecting the european environment, our market and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean as the amendments proposed are in line with the recovery plan adopted by iccat. since the recovery plan has been adopted, bluefin tuna biomass has shown a positive trend. the regional organisation decided to increase the tac by 20% for the following 3 years, based on solid scientific data stating that stocks are at healthy levels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it strikes a positive balance between the realities of environmental and ecosystem conservation and the needs of the eu fishing industry and smes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean repealing regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. the stock of the three species dominates local fishery and the geographic feature of baltic sea to be a rather closed environment makes the three species interact frequently. this tailored plan is expected to be more effective in securing sustainable exploitation because it incorporates all related species in a single set of rules. i support the call for greater supervision and an update of the current legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the first multiannual management plan under the reformed common fisheries policy, which consists of a set of rules for managing european fishing fleets and for conserving fish stocks. designed to manage a common resource, it gives all european fishing fleets equal access to eu waters and fishing grounds and allows fishermen to be able to compete. this plan aims to ensure a sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea taking into account the most up to date scientific information. it is important that these multiannual plans are in line with the common fisheries policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because of its utilisation of a multispecies management plan to ensure sustainable fishing and support for both conservation of several baltic fish species and for the economic livelihood of those in the fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, which aims to establish a framework for the multispecies management of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, where fishing primarily targets these three species. cod, herring and sprat account for over 94 % of baltic catches in the recent years. the baltic sea is a virtually closed body of water in which these three species are omnipresent and interact continuously. therefore it is of utmost importance to deliver regulation making it possible to recognize interactions between the species covered, inter alia the cod's influence on herring and sprat stocks and the other way round. the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers. at the same time it should guarantee that the management would be based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes a detailed regulation touching on judicial and legal affairs on matrimonial property regimes for international couples. this regulation clarifies uncertainties and eliminates gaps among different national family law without depriving member states of sovereignty. i am especially satisfied that the regulation sets a clear measure on determining which court has the jurisdiction tackling the lawsuits. i would like to call for a rapid implementation of this well-prepared regulation to provide a useful tool for many international couples in europe.
in writing. ‒ with the free movement of people, we can see an increase in the number of couples that move from one member state to another. these couples are thus obliged to deal with cross-border issues. the aim of this regulation is to have a clear legal framework in matters of matrimonial property regimes. i voted in favour of this report as it takes into account the member states’ autonomy in family law matters, however it will provide clear instructions to international couples and will help them choose the law that is applicable to them. it will make it possible to put an end to many cases of confusion and legal uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, as it clearly defines which courts have jurisdiction to rule on matrimonial property regimes, and furthers cooperation, uniform efficiency, and clarity of law between member states. international couples will benefit from having clearly defined applicable laws and jurisdiction pertaining to matters of property regimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation aimed at establishing a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. this will help international couples choose the law that is applicable to them, the jurisdiction of the courts and also in terms of the recognition and enforcement of decisions adopted in other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes a detailed regulation touching on judicial and legal affairs on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the regulation covers a wide range of areas and clarifies many uncertainties. the only areas which are not covered are those that remain solely within the competences of the member states, such as the recognition of a partnership or maintenance obligations. this proposal mostly follows its parallel proposal on matrimonial property regimes and they share the same objective of creating a consistent system across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this regulation is to have a clear legal framework which is needed in matters of matrimonial property regimes which also promotes enhanced cooperation between member states and the european union. i voted in favour of this report as it will make it possible to put an end to many cases of confusion and legal uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, as it clearly defines which courts, laws, and rules of enforcement are applicable in property consequences, and furthers cooperation, uniform efficiency, and clarity of law between member states. international couples will benefit from having clearly defined applicable laws and jurisdiction pertaining to judicial matters of said property consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of the property consequences of registered partnerships. the regulation will help international couples to choose the law that is applicable to them, the jurisdiction of the courts and also in terms of the recognition and enforcement of decisions adopted in other member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution as it strongly reaffirms issues that as europeans we take for granted, namely the fact that businesses’ activities must comply fully with international human rights standards. the drc is a state with high numbers of vulnerable people, particularly internally displaced ones. i believe that trade could be of benefit to the country by improving its standards of living, resulting in less chance of any massacres in the future.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned about the reports of widespread massacres, sexual violence and child-soldier recruitment by active armed groups in the north-eastern democratic republic of the congo. these armed groups have allegedly taken the lives of over 1,000 people throughout the territories of beni, lubero and butembo, while a further 1,000 are said to be missing. furthermore, reports have also suggested that a number of schools, health centres and homes were burnt down during the attacks. for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution which reiterates the parliament’s call to end the violence in congo, for all parties to lay down their arms and work towards a peaceful solution and most imperatively, release all child-soldiers from their ranks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as a matter of human rights. the institutions of the european union must recognise and formulate a proper response to the violence currently occurring in the congo, and call for peace and the immediate end of all armed aggression in the area.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the massacres in eastern congo, which highlights that the security situation in the democratic republic of the congo continues to deteriorate in the north-eastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups remain active, with numerous reports of massacres, of recruitment and use of children by armed groups, and of widespread sexual and gender‑based violence. the resolution calls for all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children from their ranks and promote dialogue towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict. it also calls notably for quick and active resumption of collaboration between monusco and the rdc armed forces (fardc), on the basis of the military cooperation agreement signed on 28 january in kinshasa, in order to re-establish and consolidate peace and security in both the eastern area and the country as a whole
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this stocktaking report that records the progress of the european education and training framework and puts forward very concrete recommendations to enhance the influence that the framework can exert on society. europe is under pressure to tackle youth unemployment and the refugee crisis. strengthened coordination in policymaking and support for education programmes will definitely pay back in the future. i am especially content with the proposal to take account of gender gaps. i believe that the revised framework can provide high-quality education and training so it can effectively assist young people and new immigrants on the job market – which is in the interest of all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ education and training are an important basis for integration and employability. urgent measures are also required at national and european levels, within the et2020 framework, in the field of education and training for adult asylum seekers who have recently arrived in europe. it is important that member states have a strategic framework in order to address the issues of diversity and segregation. we must ensure that highly skilled migrants are employed in the interest of the host country and the migrants themselves. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, as it addresses the need for both national and eu-level policy concerning lack of access to education, poor quality of education, and socio-economic discrimination in education. the report provides concrete recommendations for improving the quality of education and the training of future educators across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the follow-up report on the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020) which puts its strongest focus on social inclusion in reaching the et2020 targets – improving the inclusiveness and the quality of education and training systems in a lifelong learning perspective – and calls for better governance and cooperation in this area. i have always supported the development of digital skills, high-quality early childhood education and inclusive education as means of ensuring equal access and opportunities for all. therefore, i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution that promotes those objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to show my support for the eu’s energy efficiency target through the development of renewable energy. i especially welcome combing the eu objective for renewable energy with national targets. we have the obligation to combat climate change and i am glad to see all member states have made efforts in this fight. the eu is on the path to shift from traditional energy resources to renewable energy and, in order to be successful, we need a more consistent framework at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the use of renewable energy in the member states is an essential element in working towards a cleaner environment which is sustainable and which takes into account the health of our citizens. the progress made under the europe 2020 strategy in meeting the 20% renewable energy target represents a step in the right direction. however, in order to have sustainable use of energy we must ensure more ambitious targets, leaving room for manoeuvre for small member states like malta, which may have certain specificities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is the responsibility of the eu to combat climate change through the utilisation of, and support for, renewable energy. by introducing proper and efficient regulation of the renewable energy market, we are moving forward towards the proposed clean energy model for 2050.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at progress towards meeting the eu’s 2020 20% renewable energy target, and also looks forward to the post-2020 framework. i agree with the main objective of the report and that we need to adopt a new approach towards renewable energy at european level. climate change is a fact and we have the responsibility to combat it, and to solve the social and environmental problems it creates, before it is too late. we need to reduce our dependence on energy resources, and shift towards a sustainable energy production model, if we wish to avoid serious social and environmental consequences. therefore, i voted in favour of this report, although with reservations on certain passages which, in my opinion, do not fit with the main objective of the report and are not realistic.
in writing. ‒ this report is very positive and brings forward a number of good points, but at the end i voted against this report as it contained a number of measures and targets which i believe would be difficult to achieve. in my view this would put unnecessary pressure on both energy producers and consumers without likely achieving our aim at the end.
in writing. ‒ the report outlines how the 2012 energy efficiency directive, which sets rules and obligations to help the eu reach its 2020 energy efficiency target, is being implemented by the member states. the commission should revise the text and prioritise and address energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this implementation report, which looks at how the energy efficiency directive (agreed in 2012) is being implemented by the member states, and the progress to reaching the 2020 20% energy efficiency target, as well as looking forward to the 2030 framework and target. however, i had reservations and did not support some parts which in my opinion are too restrictive, not very realistic and do not take into account the particularities of the different member states.
in writing. ‒ the outcome of the recent referendum in the united kingdom has been a shock to all of us but nevertheless the will of the people must be respected and i sincerely hope that the withdrawal negotiations will be carried out smoothly and swiftly. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that a concrete plan for the withdrawal of united kingdom from the european union is needed as soon as possible. we need to act immediately to avoid uncertainty, which will not do anybody any good. in addition, the integrity of the union needs to be protected and the remaining 27 member states need to focus, most importantly, on how our community will function and evolve in the coming years. i am saddened by the fact that the united kingdom has decided to leave us but we must now focus on ourselves and on our common future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because after the eu referendum result in the uk we need to send a strong signal that the european project is very much alive. however, it needs to be reformed and take into consideration the needs of our citizens across the eu, particularly our families and the most vulnerable. it is of utmost importance that the european union identifies the current challenges in order to address the current reality. more than ever before we cannot take a ‘one size fits all’ approach. we need to build a value-laden relationship which is not characterised with cosmetic changes. we need more action and less words. this is a critical moment for the eu. citizens in all the member states need to be at the core of the reform that has to be made. this is the time where the eu focuses more on the issues that can make a positive difference in people’s lives, more jobs, more economic growth, really addressing the issue of migration, better salaries and better working conditions, among others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets out the way forward for the union vis-à-vis the result of the uk referendum on their eu membership. this cross-party resolution lays out the groundwork for reflecting on and improving the functioning of the european institutions, and ensures that the will of the voters of the united kingdom is respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because: there is no legal or political basis to insist that article 50 teu be activated forthwith. the uk, which remains a very important part of europe, is in political turmoil and in no position to start negotiations on leaving the eu. waiting till the situation stabilises there before the leave process takes off will not affect the current state of uncertainty, and is in the fundamental interests of european – including british – working people; the way forward as presented in the resolution will be incomprehensible to most european citizens and their families, and cannot appear as a response to their concerns and fears. the resolution does not ask the right questions or provide the right replies; starting a wide discussion on treaty changes, some directed towards increased federalism when no prospects exist to bridge effectively the growing divergences between different regions of the eu, is not the right way forward. this should be consolidation and a total insistence on giving priorities to growth policies in europe. moreover, the approach defined by the resolution will play into the hands of forces who will see in it multiple opportunities to call new referenda.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur. this is an area that is very dear to my heart, also in my former capacity. the commission, with the support of the external action service, will continue to address human trafficking in the external relations of the european union. we will continue to ensure that european union law and standards related to anti-trafficking efforts are properly transposed inside the eu, and we will continue to fight globally for higher standards against human trafficking, bilaterally through different dialogue processes and with leading international organisations. within the eu, out of the 27 member states concerned, 26 have now communicated to the commission full transposition of the anti-trafficking directive. there is one remaining – germany – and they have informed us about the political agreement reached. we are expecting information very soon on the transposition. an infringement case against this member state remains open on grounds of non-communication. the report on the extent to which member states comply with the directive is foreseen to be presented by the commission in the fourth quarter of this year. we are currently in the process of developing the post—2016 policy framework, and this resolution and the report are indeed very timely. i would also like to inform you about a milestone the commission reached recently, at the end of may, with the adoption of the first report assessing the progress made in fighting trafficking in human beings. in this report, we identify areas of progress and achievement, but also expose gaps and efforts that are absolutely still to be made. so the eu has delivered, but a lot remains to be done. we cannot – as all of you have said – allow human beings to be treated like commodities. we must work together to ensure that we prevent the crime from happening, because after that it is too late. we must crack down on trafficking where it matters the most for them – on their profits. there we all have a role to play, including in cooperation with countries beyond eu borders. trafficking in human beings is indeed part of the european agenda on migration, the european agenda on security and the new action plan on human rights and democracy, as well as the new framework for the eu’s activity on gender equality and the empowerment of women in external action 2016-2020. at the valletta summit on migration, the eu’s and the member states’ political leaders committed to scale up joint efforts to eradicate trafficking in human beings and combat those who exploit vulnerable people, and that includes children, of course. the action plan that was adopted includes the prevention of, and fight against, irregular migration, migrant smuggling and trafficking in human beings among its priorities. trafficking in human beings is also systematically addressed in agreements and partnerships with non-eu countries: in bilateral and regional dialogues on migration and mobility and in political and security dialogues. the eu raises trafficking in human beings in the framework of its human rights dialogue with over 40 countries worldwide, and that is an important component of our action plan on human rights and democracy. we also support international efforts in this field, advocating and funding joint actions with various international regional fora such as the united nations, the oece and the asia regional forum. more importantly, we must ensure that we do not foster a culture of impunity for those who exploit and use these victims. we must ensure that the victims are not treated like criminals. we must demand a strong political will and commitment by the leadership of other countries. only then will the voice and the possible assistance of the eu have an ultimate impact. to do this, we must work together. i count on this parliament – i know your strong commitment on this issue – to continue to work in this direction. trafficking in human beings has quite a short story in the external action of the european union, but we need to do more and to consolidate that work, and this report is an important step in that direction.
in writing. – victims are often ‘invisible people’. they are vulnerable because they are alone, embroiled in a system of abuse, unable to communicate with those outside that system and hidden from authorities who can assist them. this report addresses trafficking in human beings as a transnational crime of a global nature. consequently it puts forth proposals on how the eu can strengthen the international response to trafficking by focusing on root causes, as well as how it can develop its own foreign affairs and development aid programmes to address the causes that drive persons to fall victim to trafficking networks. we need an eu that addresses transnational organised crime at its source and not only deal with the effects of it in the member states. this report makes proposals on how the eu can be a leader in doing just that, by engaging third countries to take on board political, social and economic measures that address what leads persons into being trafficked and how the eu must collaborate with third countries to bring international criminal networks down.
in writing. – every 30 seconds another person becomes the victim of human trafficking. every 30 seconds, another person is ripped away from their families, their friends and their lives and forced into a trade that generates over usd 32 billion a year – a figure which the united nations estimates could entirely eradicate the global hiv epidemic by 2030. but, while this modern-day slavery is rooted in injustice, inequality and exploitation, the environment within which it resides is fluid, ever changing and adapting to survive. and, while those who exploit vulnerable persons, 50% of them children, take advantage of the world’s changing environment, we are simply unprepared. as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this report, i am highly concerned that international human rights standards are limited in their applicability to situations of climate-induced displacement and that, because of this, persons who are forced to leave their homes and lives due to climate-induced change are becoming increasingly at risk. without the necessary safeguards or even an established status, these people, who have lost everything, will have no choice but to allow themselves to fall victim to human traffickers.
in writing. – during the past six months, the incoherencies at the heart of the eu’s policymaking have become sharper. following the terrorist attacks on brussels, the dutch referendum on the ukraine agreement and now brexit, the eu construct is increasingly being seen as ineffective. we are told that the only viable way forward is by promoting ‘more europe’; that negotiating brexit will mean first negotiating a british exit then negotiating what arrangement to apply for relations with the uk; that managing the migration crisis involves a deal with turkey that amounts to a hidden strategy of refoulement plus the creation of an external borders agency; that to beat terrorism the cooperation between national security services needs to be strongly reinforced. all this is highlighting divergences within the union, between its heterogeneous parts, divergences already accelerated by the neo-liberal austerity that is the hallmark of what passes for economic policy. it is puzzling that so many fail to recognise how, in order to stabilise the situation, we need consolidation, taking full account of national perspectives and interests, with, as first priority, the need to counter the divergences that have developed between north and south and between east and centre of the union.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement that allows visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and of the republic of peru on short-stay visits. i believe this will intensify the relationship between the eu and peru and will effectively promote cultural communication, business collaboration and political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements enhance cooperation with third countries, facilitating the movement of persons and trade. once the established criteria are fulfilled such agreements are beneficial to the eu and its citizens. this vote will enhance political dialogue and strengthen the assessment needed for the opening of negotiations on bilateral visa waiver agreements with peru.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement, which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will open up opportunities and advantages for eu citizens too and could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i supported this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which will be a step forward in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru. it represents an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which proposes to regulate emission limits for a list of engines of non-road mobile machinery, as i believe this is beneficial to our environment and public health. as one of the component sectors contributing to noxious emissions, the non-road mobile machinery sector costs the eu a large proportion of the budget for tackling air pollution. a plan for tightened emission limits, along with a reasonable approach, allows the industry to comply with the new rules as soon as possible. this regulation takes advantage of the internal market to simplify the implementation procedure and reduce the burden for manufacturers. we can thus keep a balance between environmental protection and industrial competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ there are substantive requirements relating to emission limits and eu type-approval procedures for engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery. in this context, harmonised rules for the eu type approval of engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery would ensure the functioning of the internal market in the broader context of the ongoing review of union air-quality policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a new legislative framework is needed to address emissions and achieve the union’s air quality objectives. this proposal aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in non-road mobile machinery such as inland waterways and construction machinery. it is an important air quality legislation to ensure that member states meet the national air quality targets. non-road mobile machinery engines are a significant contributor to air pollution and thus need to be addressed effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it provides a balance between necessary measures to protect the environment and fair regulation of the single market. it is essential that our environment is protected for the next generation, and this resolution is another step in the proper direction, while not placing an undue burden on producers.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile machinery engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are accountable for roughly 15% of the nitrogen oxide (nox) and 5% of the particulate matter (pm) emissions in the eu while their share of total nox emissions in the eu 15 is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. at the same time, whilst emissions standards for road vehicles have become more stringent, equivalent measures for nrmm have lagged behind. that is why a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key in order to achieve the union’s air-quality objectives to better protect human health and environment. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which addresses challenges related to the refugee crisis in europe, especially the social inclusion of refugees and their integration into the labour market. the report proposes a scheme that invites both refugees and host countries to exercise their rights and duties in order to ensure smooth and effective integration. i would like, for the purpose of cost-effectiveness, to encourage the use of existing financial instruments to provide support to regions with difficulties. also, there must be a proper waiting period for a work permit before entry to the labour market, so that refugees can receive enough training and host countries can assess their abilities.
in writing. ‒ significant differences still exist in the modalities of processing requests for international protection in member states. this report indicates that slow and excessively bureaucratic procedures may hinder refugees and asylum seekers’ access to education and training, employment guidance and the labour market and consequently their integration. these shortcomings increase the refugees and asylum seekers’ vulnerability to undeclared work and precarious working conditions. the report thus calls for an integrated approach to eu migration policy and for greater emphasis on culture, education and training in those operational measures undertaken as part of the european agenda on migration. member states need to show more commitment in developing initiatives that facilitate integration through the use of language, education, social and cultural programmes and the recognition of refugees’ competences.
in writing. ‒ increasing the european social fund share in cohesion policy is an important basis to really and truly integrate refugees in our societies. a common approach to labour market integration and social inclusion of refugees is required in order to have effective integration. this approach is in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non—discrimination, which shall be safeguarded in all scenarios. i voted in favour of this report as it takes into account the current realities and seeks to address them positively whilst safeguarding human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the social inclusion and labour integration of refugees is important for the well-being of all community members and the efficiency and prosperity of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the common approach to the labour market integration and social inclusion of refugees, which calls for effective integration policies to be put in place without delay, and for sufficient financial resources to guarantee the swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and their social inclusion, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that stresses how trade and foreign investment can have a positive impact on economic growth, human rights and environmental protection and can be used to influence these crucial issues. after analysing the implementation of the 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in trade policy, the rapporteur brought up aspects that need further progress. trade agreements should incorporate gender equality and greater coherence with development aid. i believe that better trade policies are for the benefit of sustainable development and social stability.
in writing. ‒ by linking trade, human rights and social and environmental standards the eu sends a clear message embracing social corporate responsibility that reflects a holistic approach that understands the role of businesses within the community. while all businesses must act responsibly, socially, environmentally and economically, one has to distinguish between the rules applicable to small businesses and smes and multinational corporations. setting targets for smes, such as corporate responsibility all along the supply chain, would jeopardise their development through measures that are too cumbersome for their structures to withstand.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it outlines valid factors which are important in the implementation of social and environmental standards and human rights, and for ensuring corporate responsibility. business and trade should incorporate a gender-mainstreaming approach, as they can play a pivotal role in promoting gender equality. we need greater coherence with respect to development, to really and truly have a sustainable environment. the eu’s trade strategy can also be a tool for the promotion of democratic values in third countries. trade and human rights reinforce one another and our strategy may also have an important role to play in offering positive incentives in terms of promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report in recognition of the importance of human rights oriented approaches to economic and environmental practices and policy. in adopting this report, we move towards a more equal society in both the economic and social environments.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements because these issues become of a major concern to our citizens. the report raises concerns about the level of ambition the eu has to uphold these. it is important to see legally binding and enforceable standards to hold corporations and governments to account, taking on board the important views of civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which proposes a forward-looking and innovative strategy for the eu in the field of trade and investment, taking account of the challenges that come along with globalisation. globalisation is not an enemy to the eu but an opportunity for economic growth and job creation once matched with a compatible trade framework. good interactions between the european and global markets are of mutual interest for both. i therefore welcome open, transparent and updated trade agreements that help the eu realise the full potential of the single market and maintain its competitiveness in the world.
in writing. ‒ trade policy needs to be relevant within market changing circumstances. trade has moved towards digitalisation and is driven by innovation. it has embraced e-commerce and cross-border data flows. smes need the eu to have a solid forward-looking strategy that builds on a coherent industrial policy, research and the digital agenda.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it demands that trade policy should focus on delivering tangible improvement in the living conditions of all citizens. there is also an important reference to taking account of the needs of smes. the report introduces a significant shift towards value-based trade, which also increases cooperation in the fight against corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion. i strongly agree that we need to be open to trade in order to further increase jobs and growth. the commission needs to deliver on its promises and ensure that the transparency initiative is applied to all ongoing trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure that the european single market is able to adapt to the ever-changing nature of the global market. a creative and forward-thinking strategy for eu trade and investment is essential to maintain the prosperity and economic market of our union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because europe needs to be open to trade in the interest of jobs and growth. but that openness needs to be flanked with the right international rules and domestic safety nets to ensure ordinary people can benefit from trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which addressed trafficking in human beings and called for effective measures to combat it. i welcome the eu engaging in the anti-trafficking fight as our fundamental principles are based on respect for human rights and gender equality. to fight the well-organised criminal chain, i call for regional and international cooperation in drawing up specific legislation and ensuring uniform implementation as it is the only effective way of fighting cross-border crime. moreover, women and children are more vulnerable to those crimes and should be given special care and attention.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the victims of human trafficking and takes cognisance of the geo-political circumstances and socio-economic factors that drive people to fall victims to human trafficking. it proposes european action addressing causes of human trafficking. it also focuses on trafficking networks, takes cognisance of their impact on the human rights of the victims, on societies and economies. it proposes stronger internal laws against human trafficking and cooperation between countries. it asks the eu to engage with third countries and to ensure enforcement of legislation and to invest in technology and expertise to identify, trace and combat misuse of the internet by criminal networks who recruit victims and sell victims online. it identifies different purposes of exploitation including sexual exploitation, forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriages, child soldiers and trafficking of babies, and proposes measures to enhance the role of authorities as well as civil society organisations in assisting victims to walk away from the abuse.
in writing. ‒ trafficking of human beings is a violation of human rights. we need to address all types of trafficking in order to fight this reality and safeguard all citizens. we need to make sure that the rights each citizen is entitled to are safeguarded, and that we ensure a solid framework of cooperation between the member states and with third countries. it is also fundamentally important to understand and acknowledge the difference between trafficking in migrants and the trafficking of human beings. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis of migration has created new channels for deplorable acts of human trafficking, especially concerning the trafficking of women and children. i am in support of this report as combating human trafficking within the european union is a priority for the promotion of safety and the protection of human rights for all peoples.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu’s external relations, which describes the global trends in trafficking of human beings. the report also underlines that the trafficking is a highly lucrative business and that the proceeds from this criminal activity are largely re-injected into the global economy and financial system. moreover, the report makes a clear link between trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings.
the slovak presidency began at a difficult time following the outcome of brexit. the vote to leave the european union was the voice of the british people who felt that the european union was broken, and that membership brought them more problems than they needed. i fear that this is the sentiment of european citizens. our citizens are feeling that integration, immigration and globalisation are problems, and so they are focusing more on the disadvantages of partnership, and not appreciating the advantages of partnership. the message through communication and information of the value and importance of the union to people's daily lives has failed. if not, why, after brexit, was the most googled question 'what is the european union?' other laughter if not weeping! the slovak presidency's initiative to regain the confidence of the european union is therefore not only good but crucial. if not, efforts to improve the financial, social and economic situation of our citizens will be in vain.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the framework agreement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan, which will allow for greater cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan as one of the european neighbourhood policy countries. the protocol contains a framework which will facilitate the participation of azerbaijan in certain eu programmes which are bound to be of great advantage to both parties, especially in the areas of culture, education and environment. i hope the agreement will in the long term also have a positive impact on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this protocol, as it lays down the financial and technical rules which enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes which are open to third countries. i believe that this will further strengthen the relationship between the european union and azerbaijan to help promote the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation in order to establish the financial and technical rules of azerbaijan’s participation in agreements with the eu that are typical of third countries. i support this recommendation as it promotes increased trade and global interaction.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims to promote cooperation in sectors and foster people-to-people contacts which should be beneficial for society. the objective of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each particular programme will be then determined in agreement between the commission and the competent authorities in azerbaijan. the eu-azerbaijan pca has entered into force on 1 july 1999. since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been conducting negotiations for new and upgraded contractual relations, as per objectives of the eastern partnership that azerbaijan is part of. unfortunately, these negotiations have come to a stall in 2013. in the meantime, on 1 september 2014 the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements came into force. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes to move the surplus from 2015 financial year, amounting to eur 1.349 billion, to the budget for the financial year 2016. this money could indeed prove to be very useful in coping with the refugee crisis. the rapporteur urges the member states to take the opportunity of the refund and commit to their promises of supporting programmes related to this crisis.
in writing. ‒ i support the call to reduce the share of gni contributions from member states to the union budget in 2016 by eur 1 349 million. concurrently, i share the appeal that member states need to use the opportunity of such a reflow to honour their pledges in relation to the refugee and humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that the surplus from 2015 should be used adequately and for the best interests of our citizens. we need to further widen the budget made available for 2016, to use income in a sustainable and positive manner.
in writing. ‒ i am in support of this report, as it is essential that our union institutions are able to utilise any surplus from the previous year to adequately finance and support the current projects of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with the draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: entering the surplus of the financial year 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading of this report. in the digital age it is crucial to have intelligent strategies that will help us manage the network and information systems and deal with any potential problem effectively. given the importance of this issue, i believe that a few more questions need to be answered and further negotiations will be helpful. this report itself aims to set a uniform regulatory framework within the eu to secure the network and information systems. with the development of digital single market, citizens and companies increasingly rely on online services and instruments. to avoid suffering losses from cyber-attacks, it is of great importance to ensure a safer digital environment within the eu. a harmonised framework simplifies communications and eliminates gaps between national administrations. i am confident that the collaborated fight against cyber-attack will improve the functions of the digitalised internal market and benefit our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report which states that europe needs to establish competent authorities for network and information security, set up computer security incident response teams and adopt national strategies supported through cooperation plans. besides, it is essential that the national competent authorities cooperate within a network enabling secure and effective coordination, including coordinated information exchange as well as detection and response at eu level. within this context, trust and security are key pillars of the digital single market strategy. as legislators we need to make sure that european citizens and businesses have access to more innovative, secure and user-friendly solutions that take into account european rules and values towards prosperity which keeps our online economy running.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this agreement as it aims to improve cyber-security capabilities and improves also cooperation in the area of cyber-security and online environment. this ensures that the appropriate security measures are taken and incident reports are put forward to the national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this recommendation, as it addresses the need for sufficient and modern security in information exchange between member states. as sharing of information and data within the european union is essential to our ability to combat terrorism, promote research and innovation, and develop the single market, we must also ensure the security and safety of the networks and systems we utilise to share said information.
in writing. ‒ the report on the high common level of security of network and information systems across the union represents the first eu-wide legislation on cybersecurity and its main objective is to improve the security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses. i have voted in favour of the report, which is essential to protect eu citizens in the digital era.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes to update the energy efficiency labelling system in line with the constantly changing technologies. the system grades electric devices on how they consume power frugally, aiming to encourage both consumers and producers to take energy efficiency and environmental protection into greater consideration. it is necessary to keep the system up to date and easy to understand so that consumers can be correctly directed by the labels when purchasing electric products. also, the system should receive supervision to ensure the labels are fairly granted. i believe that a transparent and regulated energy efficiency labelling system can continue to green up our homes and cut the greenhouse emissions.
in writing. ‒ i agree that energy efficiency is a crucial element of the european union’s 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is key to moderate energy demand and to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. we need to highlight more informed choices for significant contribution to energy savings, while at the same time promoting innovation and investments into the production of more energy-efficient products which take into account the rapid technological progress for energy efficiency in products achieved over recent years. this should be factored in in labelling to include a specific code or any other digital pattern to make best use of internet based technologies. this will improve the efficiency of energy-related products through informed consumer choice and enhanced societal awareness which benefits the union economy overall.
in writing. ‒ customers need to be at the core of our energy efficiency policies and this is a legislative initiative which empowers customers further in taking the right decisions. this legislation calls for a clear a-to-g scale for labelling energy efficiency in household appliances. this new legislation will replace the proliferating pluses in today’s top class. following the car emissions scandal, this legislation aims to help restore trust with concrete proposals. since its inception the ‘energy efficient’ label provided citizens with a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of the products they buy and we need to enhance this further by providing customers with the right tools to make the right decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a matter of consumer advocacy and access to information. in the wake of the many car emissions cases that have taken place over the last several months, it has becoming increasingly important for consumers to have accurate information on the environmental impacts of products in order to restore the trust of the consumer in regulations and safety in the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes a detailed regulation on protecting the eu’s external borders through a collaborative work among all border control agencies. the increasing amount of refugees puts great pressures on the national coastguard authorities and worries to the stability of schengen area. i believe that this regulation is an effective tool for the eu to reduce cross-border conflicts and crimes. additionally, it will provide assistance to any member state facing challenges on its external borders. i am especially satisfied that this regulation will not hinder free movement within the eu but can return a convincing internal security to our citizens.
in writing. ‒ there is an urgent need to adopt this regulation to strengthen the control of the external border and thus return to a situation without border controls within the schengen area. i agree that member states need to reinforce their capacity to implement their obligations with regard to the control of the external borders and to face challenges at the external borders. this should include search and rescue operations at sea, without prejudice to the responsible national authorities’ competence to initiate criminal investigations. in the context of the report proposal i emphasis the priority of protection of fundamental rights, the prevention of cross-border crime, trafficking in human being and terrorism, as well as the situation in neighbouring third countries and countries of origin and transit for irregular migration. the establishment of a pre-warning mechanism which analyses the migratory flows towards the union and the respect for fundamental rights in the countries they come from is also of valuable use for the union to address more coherently the issue of migration. finally, i support the call for a rapid reaction pool of border guards and a technical equipment pool at the disposal of the agency aiming at their deployment in rapid border interventions within days.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it takes into consideration a number of important factors which were not being properly addressed. it clearly defines the role of the agency and that of the member states, which ensures that member state sovereignty is safeguarded. this new agency will also support member states in carrying out search and rescue operations and takes into consideration the application of the returns directive. recent events in europe have also exposed the fact that more needs to be done to combat terrorism and crime and this new agency seeks to achieve a european integrated border management at the external borders which further targets cross-border crime. it also ensures that fundamental rights are safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ free movement within the schengen area of the european union has remained one of the largest achievements of the eu, and this movement must be protected by ongoing legislation that adapts to current political and migratory trends. i am in support of this report as the creation of the european border and coast guard to protect our external schengen borders is essential to the security of our citizens, management of migration, and promotion of free movement of citizens within schengen.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the european border and coast guard because the new agency will help better manage the external borders of the union, helping to safeguard the free movement of persons within the union. while strengthening the agency it is ensured that it will be a standard-bearer of eu principles and values in all aspects of its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that calls for synergies among the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca). the enhanced cooperation among the three agencies as well as national authorities will be an effective tool to ensure greater european maritime safety, especially under the pressure of the refugee crisis and mass migrations. citizens will benefit from more stable external borders.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the call to share information generated by merging and analysing data available in ship reporting systems and other information systems hosted by or accessible to the agencies. member states need to adhere to this obligation in accordance with their respective legal bases and without prejudice to the ownership of data mentioned. enhancing the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions is essential in addressing emerging risks in the maritime domain.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency aims at reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human lives at sea by helping to enforce the pertinent eu legislation. i believe that not only can this agency work towards ensuring less lives are lost in our seas, but it can also contribute towards mitigating the effects of pollution, environmental hazards on our seas and contribute to better water quality. as parliament’s opinion takes all of this into consideration, i voted in favour of mandating this proposal into its first reading.
in writing. ‒ protection of persons in the international and national waters of eu member states is critical for the promotion of trade and overall safety of borders and individuals, which is why i am in support of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human lives at sea by helping to enforce the pertinent eu legislation. i believe that not only can this agency work towards ensuring less lives are lost in our seas, but it can also contribute towards mitigating the effects of pollution, environmental hazards on our seas and contribute to better water quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that recommends that national authorities carry out fisheries control in a coordinated way. maritime safety is highly correlated and i am concerned that efforts of national agencies are too scattered to achieve evident progress. the united operational capacities will ensure consistent actions tackling maritime issues more effectively and will help avoid conflicts due to lack of communications.
in writing. ‒ as the report points out we have 316 national authorities across the european union which cooperate with one another using some 70 different structures. as a result, the current cooperation arrangements can be slow and fail to work correctly, in particular owing to a lack of information on the remits, powers and capabilities of other authorities. i support the call to pool the number of operational assets and improve the lack of interoperability as regards both systems and assets through joint planning and joint operations. i see scope in getting this agency to bring together three european agencies whose duties include dealing with disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information pertaining to their activities. this will help against duplication of work by ensuring that all those involved, especially the european agencies, act coherently and effectively with a view to developing various forms of synergy.
in writing. ‒ this proposal coordinates maritime surveillance among european agencies including the european fisheries control agency, the maritime safety agency and the european border coast guard agency. i am in favour of this proposal as it also includes ways of dealing with disasters at sea, by coordinating operations, pooling operational capacities and sharing surveillance information to enhance maritime threats. this will make responses to maritime threats more efficient and also reduces risks in the eu waters.
in writing. ‒ i am in support of this report, as an eu level agency dedicated to the surveillance, regulation, and control of maritime markets is important to increase efficiency, safety, and security of our seas. along with the maritime safety agency and coast guard agency, these three bodies will contribute to increased safety and management of the schengen area borders and markets.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. i have no objections with regard to the addition of an article that the commission will be proposing on cooperation with regard to functions in the mandate of the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ i support strengthening the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. in the past the european parliament called several times on the commission to take measures to reinforce the sc’s independence, something which is essential towards effective functioning which requires an independent and adequately staffed secretariat.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the independent functioning of the supervisory committee’s secretariat needs to be strengthened. it is important that the supervisory committee remains independent and there needs to be an adequately staffed secretariat. however, i believe that the relations between the anti-fraud office (olaf) and the supervisory committee need to be further strengthened to really and truly improve the situation. this report safeguards and protects the eu’s financial interests. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it increases the functioning of the olaf supervisory committee by making its secretariat a more independent entity, removing many conflicts of interests and possible bias. an independent and fair olaf supervisory committee is essential to ensure the functionality and success of the european commission’s anti-fraud investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that analyses the commission’s review of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the report makes good recommendations which are in line with new challenges and priorities that have emerged very recently. i agree that the refugee crisis, internal security threats and youth unemployment, to name a few, have revealed how much work there is still to be done and that we need to adjust our finances accordingly. the eu is in urgent need to update the long-term budgetary plan so that the set objectives can still be fulfilled. due to the possibility of unpredictable crises, a flexible financial framework is essential for the eu to act timely and adapt as soon as the problem emerges.
in writing. ‒ while the priorities of the union remain similar to those at the time of adoption, circumstances evolve and the eu will continue to face in the coming years challenges which were not foreseen when an mff is approved. this therefore requires financial tweaks along the way on the portion of the eu budget dedicated to sectoral priorities. i regret however to point out that research and innovation has often been the first to be affected by any cuts in the budget. in reality, research and innovation programmes generate eu added value, which underlines the key role of those programmes in supporting competitiveness and, thus, in assuring future growth and the long-term prosperity of the union. finally, it is important to point out that resources of the esf and the fund for european aid to the most deprived are not sufficient to address the rise of inequality and poverty. these people are suffering the worst consequences of the economic crisis on the labour market which in practice led to exclusion of several young people from the labour market. there is scope therefore to increase, as necessary, the esf allocation in the cohesion policy budget as part of the revision of the mff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am generally in favour of most points laid down in the report since they address a number of issues affecting the multi-annual financial framework. areas such as migration and terrorism need further budget allocations and the eu budget needs to be endowed with adequate resources in order to ensure growth and jobs and achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion whilst also promoting solidarity. my concern was about the system of own resources since i believe in subsidiarity and in the utmost respect to member state competence in the area of taxation and this in line with the eu treaties and my vote reflected this aspect as well.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, as it is necessary to regularly review and adapt the multiannual financial framework (mff) to the ever-changing political and economic landscape of the globe. this report highlights the challenges in finance and economics that we as a union face, and suggests policies to help us adapt to these issues.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this report since i am in agreement with most of its points, which address a number of issues affecting the mff. areas such as migration and terrorism need further budget allocations, and the eu budget needs to be endowed with adequate resources in order to ensure growth and jobs and achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion whilst also promoting solidarity. however, my concern was about the system of own resources, since i believe in subsidiarity and in full compliance with member state competence in the area of taxation, in line with the eu treaties; my vote reflected this aspect as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, despite the promising measures outlined in it, which could help us tackle tax avoidance in europe, there are also provisions that i find unacceptable. for example, i was not able to vote in favour of the proposal for a common corporate consolidated tax base, as it would be damaging to malta and its people, who chose me to represent them in this chamber.
in writing. ‒ i am against tax evasion and avoidance and support measures that curb these practices, but those measures need to be within our competence to propose. while the report makes proposals which are acceptable and which i have supported in the vote, it goes beyond eu competence in the field of tax and i have thus voted against it. instances of tax evasion and avoidance should not be used politically to seek tax harmonisation. member states have different economies shaped by the geographic, economic, social and political challenges that they each face. we cannot expect each ms to have the same tax policy, as this would drive investment and business out of europe towards third countries and would damage the social assistance structures of most of our ms, especially those which face challenges because of their size and geo-political realities. however, i support protection for whistle-blowers, such as those involved in panamaleaks, and call for them to be legislatively protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because what was being presented in this report is a step closer to fiscal policy harmonisation. this approach weakens smaller importing jurisdictions to the benefit of larger economies which are mainly capital exporting ones. a ‘one-size fits all’ approach in this regard does not recognise the differences that exist between the different eu economies and prohibits countries like malta from addressing economic and geographical drawbacks that it has to live with. small economies like malta require flexibility to help them counterbalance the disadvantages that they would otherwise have to face. tax matters should remain an issue of national competence which can help reflect these different realities. otherwise, the eu will be increasing the difference that already exists between member states since it will be removing the tools that can help small, peripheral member states who lack resources. the eu needs to ensure that it does not drive business to non-eu countries because of its tax harmonisation drive.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against this report, as it calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) to combat misuse and abuse of the eu’s current tax system. i believe that this application of the ccctb would be detrimental to our financial markets, and it is ineffective in combating abuse and tax avoidance by companies and individuals.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that i will always be supportive and committed to european measures and actions on improving tax transparency, coordination and information exchange in order to target abuses and address instances of harmful tax competition, i voted against this report on tax rulings due to my standing position on matters related to fiscal policy harmonisation and a corporate tax base. the eu is not a homogenous area and not all regions and countries in the eu face the same economic realities, domestic market size, geographical proximity or resources. therefore, in my opinion, the one-size—fits—all approach on fiscal harmonisation matters proposed in this report would increase the disparity of wealth between northern and southern europe and remove the tools for small member states to redress their natural economic and geographic drawbacks through tax measures so that they can safeguard their tax revenues and keep people-based economic activity in their territory.
in writing. ‒ the report makes recommendations regarding an improvement in transparency in relation to taxation measures in eu member states. i agree with these recommendations and fully support measures uniquely designed to promote full transparency in national tax treatments. however the report also proposes measures that implicitly or explicitly promote moves which, on an eu-wide basis, would introduce tax convergence and harmonisation. this goes against the interests of the union’s smaller economies, which lack the endowments of the larger ones. their flexibility in policy making is already constrained, inter alia, by the convergence in vat rates, state aid rules, the single currency and the six-pack/two-pack rules applied to their budgets. as a result, structural divergences between parts of the union have grown, not diminished. reducing the tax flexibility of such economies would further increase these disparities, and would be unfair, dysfunctional and unacceptable. tax competition should remain part of the limited array of decision tools available to national economies. significantly, the report fails to provide a tight definition of fair tax competition, mainly because it is slanted towards a situation of tax harmonisation across the eu. for these reasons, i voted against both reports of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to show my support for strengthening the cohesion of financial programmes and other policies within the eu. existing financial funds have different targeting areas and lists of priorities. this resolution draws attention to potential risks of overlaps and contradictions due to the numerous programmes. in order to exploit the full influence of investment it is essential to set up a framework ensuring synergies among financial instruments. i believe that this coordinated framework will effectively stimulate innovations and have a positive impact on job creation and the growth of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as even though there has been a significant increase in the budget of horizon 2020 when compared to previous research framework programmes which led to an increase of the innovation and competitiveness-related budgets under cohesion policy, it is of utmost importance to ensure synergies between the different funds. it is only in this manner that we can face increasing competitive pressure from global markets and maximise the impact and efficiency of public funding.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion, as analysis and promotion of synergy between different structural and investment funds, as well as horizon 2020, produces strong benefits for the single market and the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution that details parliament’s recommendations on the priorities of the commission work programme in 2017, taking the uk referendum into consideration. i am glad that the list of top concerns for our citizens is reflected both in the commission work programme and in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing a number of global and common challenges, and we need to address these challenges in an effective manner to ensure a union which offers the best environment for our citizens. i voted in favour of this proposal as it takes into consideration those areas of priority that require further attention. improving the working and living conditions of european citizens is important; we need to ensure sustainable employment and reduce poverty by also offering free access to education and training. in economic terms we need to unleash the full potential of the single market and promote entrepreneurship. with regard to climate change, this proposal reminds us that efforts must be stepped up to achieve the energy union. i believe that more needs to be done and we need to ensure that all efforts are in place. whilst agreeing to proper tax transparency rules and enhancing our fight against tax fraud and abuse, i am not in favour of the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (cctb) as indicated in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion due to the wide array of benefits it brings to citizens and the single market in the areas of working and living conditions, economic recovery, climate change and environmental security, refugee influx, and security concerns to name a few. this resolution strengthens the rights and conditions of citizens across the eu, and is a step in the right direction for economic recovery and respect for all persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission work programme 2017, which emphasises the urgent need for a strong social agenda, with decent social standards, greater investment in people and serious action to reduce inequalities. however, i voted against the paragraph calling to include the appropriate involvement of nato. i have also voted against the paragraph, calling on the eu to work towards a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base.
in writing. – i can only repeat what i said last year regarding the cwp 2015. it rightly defines as an important objective the elimination of rampant tax evasion and avoidance, as well as aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations. measures that, in a transparent and consistent manner, seek to attain this goal in the context of a level playing field are desirable. a serious problem arises, however, when the measures contemplated go beyond the stated objective and prepare the ground for tax harmonisation. this goes against the interest of peripheral regions and islands having limited endowments. when adopting european regulations they have, among others, removed protective trade barriers, adopted consumption taxes that follow continental models, phased out state aid, adopted stringent budgetary rules and abandoned exchange rate autonomy. this has severely curtailed their competitiveness. the only element that remains for them to safeguard it is fair tax competition. this resolution endorses a common consolidated tax base, a financial transaction tax and a minimum effective tax rate on corporations. in current circumstances, these proposals amount to a first substantial step towards harmonisation. they are hugely detrimental to the development prospects of islands and regions on the periphery of the union. i cannot approve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which urges japan to put an end to the practice of whaling. it would be better for the environment if japan committed to the protection of marine mammals, especially whales with rather conservative populations. restarting whaling activities threatens the stability of the maritime food chain and violates the eu-japan free-trade agreement. the adoption of the negotiations on the agreement should wait until japan ceases whaling activities and fully commits to the protection of the ocean.
in writing. ‒ the motion bases its prerogative on the genuine scientific research which states that it does not require the large-scale and regular killing of whales, calling on japan to immediately stop its whaling activities and to abide by the conclusions of the iwc scientific committee. i agree with the call to respect the moratorium on all commercial whaling, which is still in force, in order to protect stocks from extinction and allow them to recover. the primary objective should remain the protection of biodiversity, including the conservation of species in order not to allow the resumption of commercial whaling in respect of any stock of whales in eu waters. finally, i support the need to explore appropriate mechanisms to continuously engage with japan on the issue of scientific whaling with a view to abolishing the practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this oral question to the european commission and to the council on japan’s decision to resume whaling in the 2015-2016 season. we felt the need to move this oral question after the japanese fisheries agency notified the international whaling commission that it will resume whaling under a revised plan which would allow the killing of 333 minke whales in the period 2015-2016 and a total of nearly 4,000 whales during the whole 12 years. this decision verges on going against the ruling of the international court of justice which ordered the halting of japan’s annual slaughter of whales in the southern ocean. hence more clarity is required.
in writing. ‒ the european union in its relations with japan must make the abolishment of whaling a priority, as japan has begun to resume whaling for the sake of dubious scientific purposes. i am in support of this motion, as said resolution approaches the topic in a diplomatic way while recognising the eu’s commitment to ensuring the security of biodiversity and combating the harmful whaling trade.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is essential that japan halts its whaling programme, which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution, as i believe that the eu should give no political message prior to the upcoming general elections in belarus, in order not to impinge upon the election and impede the commission’s critical engagement plan.
in writing. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution, as it is essential that belarus resolves its government’s violations of human rights, and that the commission does not include belarus as a beneficiary of the european investment bank until said violations are addressed and ameliorated.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution tabled by the european green party as i felt that the measures they called for in the resolution went too far. my main concern on this resolution is that radical measures may lead to the suspension of the bank recovery directive and other rules. i believe that there is no concrete link between this delegated act and the eu bail—in rules, so for this reason i voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against this motion for a resolution, as i support the previously voted and agreed-upon standards for minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities. these standards are sufficient for the financial market, and do not need to be reconsidered or analysed by the commission on their effectiveness.
mr president, i would like to thank helga stevens also for her excellent work. i welcome this report. it brings us a step closer to achieving equal rights and opportunities for people with disabilities. it highlights amongst other things elements related to employment and education, which are particularly important if we are to help people achieve independence and realise their full potential. i especially encourage further development of incentives for employers who offer jobs to people with disabilities. opportunities need to be created so that everyone can become as independent as possible and participate in all domains of life. if these issues are not addressed, they will only result in greater social exclusion and poverty and we cannot allow that. i believe that limited access to education for individuals with disabilities is bound to have a negative impact later on in their lives and limit the choices and possibilities at a later stage. so i call for provisions that will help people with disabilities participate in courses which will enhance their competences and skills, including participation in apprenticeships. there is still a lot that needs to be done, but we must remember that one—size—fits—all solutions are not the answer. we need to focus on the diversity of problems that people with disabilities face on a daily basis. finally, the european union should act as a beacon in promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. we have made big strides at eu level in this regard, and i am proud of that, but unfortunately disregard for the rights of – as well as discrimination against – people with disabilities are still felt within the eu despite the fact that they are all embedded in our treaties.
i use the english language today, not my mother tongue, maltese, to raise awareness that some people on the autistic spectrum in my country learn only one language – english – but in a dual-language country this should not continue to impede their educational development. i want to nudge policy-makers to stop looking at disability and to focus on the person. true, what meets the eye is the wheelchair, for example, but what should meet our minds and hearts is the person in that wheelchair. this report gives us an opportunity to show our citizens that we value the potential and the ability of each one of us. employment, education, sports, these are our culture. since culture is the narrative of our lifestyle, the way we live, what we do every single day, let's make sure that all persons, even those whom the environment disables, have space to participate. we need the abilities and potential of every person, so let's stop pushing people out of our societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i strongly protest the enhancement of access to sexual and reproductive health services, namely abortion, which defies all moral principles, especially the right to live. i do support the recommendations on promoting the collaboration between the eu and un general assembly for the purpose of providing better regional and global protection but my conscience does not allow me to vote in favour of anything which allows people to kill innocent children.
in writing. ‒ undoubtedly, recent happenings show that we need to address and ensure peace and security and continue to fight against terrorism. in the field of migration we need enhanced coherence and coordination between the external and internal dimensions of migration policy and the development and external affairs agendas while ensuring that human rights, democracy and the rule of law remain fundamental elements of the union. this recommendation also takes into account development and climate change, which are crucially important in reaching the union’s objectives. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report. however, i voted against all articles making reference to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the final version of this text as despite a number of good points, the final version contained unacceptable references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which highlights important issues such as children’s rights, lgbti rights, human rights and sport events, a human-rights based approach to migration, special attention to women and children, and zero tolerance for the death penalty. nevertheless, i have never supported, and voted against, any references to sexual and reproductive health rights, which in my opinion fall strictly under a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to welcome the eu’s efforts regarding the promotion and better implementation of human rights, especially, the rights of persons with disabilities. the ratification of the convention marks an important step towards the full integration of people with disabilities into our societies and towards the full implementation of their rights. i encourage the initiatives to help people with disabilities to become more independent through employment, education and in all other areas of life.
in writing. ‒ i believe that we need to ensure and facilitate the full integration of persons with disabilities as they are often excluded from the mainstream of society, and we need to promote and voice their needs. this must go hand in hand with reinforcing their human rights, as i strongly believe that each human being must enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that the eu acceding to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is an important step forward in the right direction towards truly promoting integrity and voicing the needs of all citizens, so i voted in favour of this resolution. however, i voted against all clauses referring to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a matter of human rights and equal protections. persons with disabilities have a right to inclusion in society in both labour and social environments, and this report implements these rights, as well as highlighting the rights of persons with disabilities to advocacy of their own well-being.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for the human rights of all persons with disabilities to be promoted, defended and reinforced. persons with disabilities are often excluded from the mainstream of society and denied their human rights. it is essential to make sure that all persons with all types of disabilities enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the draft commission regulation as i do not agree with the ideas set out in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ misleading health claims are a threat to all citizens, especially children. claims that caffeine increases focus and concentration, among other things, for products containing high levels of caffeine like energy drinks should not be allowed. this objection aims to stop foods which are unhealthy from claiming that they have health benefits. i strongly agree that these foods should not be targeted at children and adolescents. i voted in favour of this objection pursuant to rule 106 as i believe that the health of our citizens is a main priority and such health claims are incorrect.
in writing. ‒ as an active advocate and member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection of the european parliament, i cast my vote in favour of this motion in order to ensure that consumers receive accurate information on the products they choose to purchase. producers must truthfully advertise the health information of their food products in order for consumers in the single market to be well-informed and treated fairly.
we agree that this is an unfortunate situation. we agree to have a debate. but until we have more information - because we don't have all the information yet - i think the resolution, for now, is not to do it. i agree, however, that there should be a debate. we have methods that have already been used in the past with caterpillar that there were possibilities to use the egf, and i think the same should be done, in the meantime. but i think that the resolution, at this moment, is against it, but in favour of debate.
i understand that this is an important subject, but we have much more important reports than this morning's subject. so we do not agree that the debate we have in the morning as a party should be removed. i think that there should be enough members here after noon on thursday because we have to remember that after noon on thursday is also a day that we are supposed to be present in this parliament to work.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want, first of all, to thank all of you for your comments and for this fruitful and timely discussion. i am very glad that broadly, we are following the same line towards achieving our 2030 and cop 21 targets. here in the debate i think there is full support for the two reports in the house. naturally, some points have been raised on which there are elements of divergence, mainly in relation to capacity support schemes: this is an extremely difficult issue and it will be one of the most important elements of the package that the commission will propose. the electricity market design proposal is one of the key pieces of legislation in the union action plan, and probably the most difficult to engineer. we have a unique opportunity, we have made progress with the previous packages but here we have an opportunity in a different scenario because, as mr kelly pointed out, in cop 21, in paris, we assumed very ambitious objectives. the european union has a very ambitious renewables target and to achieve that we have to change absolutely the functioning of our market and the integration of renewables and, as mr turmes says, it is a big challenge. we can discuss many of the elements, but the main purpose of the new package will be to put the consumers in the centre: consumers must be at the centre of the market design because they are prosumers, they redistribute the generation, and this is about the use of renewables. it is a different market from the old decentralised market, and the current market is not fit for purpose. so it is a very challenging exercise and i appreciate all the comments made here. for sure, the commission is going to present a package. it is not only about market design, it covers energy efficiency, the energy performance of buildings and a renewables directive. and on all of these proposals we must follow the same logic. the logic is that we have to follow a pattern of decarbonisation of our economies: that is the message from paris. renewables have come to stay, and we have to develop them, and we have to make the market fit for purpose. so, as i stated earlier, and as i can confirm again, both reports and the rich debate we have just had constitute a very solid basis from which we can get to work on the whole range of issues that will be coming up in the next weeks and months. in the context of decarbonising of our economies, there is no doubt that the heating and cooling sector is an absolute game changer when it comes to security, economic growth and reaching our climate and energy targets. we have to dedicate lots of time to this sector, and it is very important that work in this sector – work on energy efficiency, making the best use of the epc (energy performance certificate) and the future epc that is also coming – will be one of the priorities of the commission. i also note with satisfaction that this house as a whole is committed to achieving a truly integrated and flexible market, providing the right signals for investment where they are most needed. the market does not currently give signals for investment in the right places – that is for sure – and mr turmes is right to point out the problem, but probably i have more trust than he does in the reform of the emission trading system, and the emission trading system is before this house. at the moment you are discussing it, and i think that the changes that have been introduced will be effective in the future. i am not as pessimistic as mr turmes is. i count on all of you to back these reports because they are excellent reports and they give a solid basis for the work the commission has to do in the coming months. we want to deliver the whole package this year, as set out in the action plan. next year we will come along with targets for co2 emissions: we will have, i am sure, a very fruitful discussion with this parliament, and i am sure, when i see the spirit and the concerns of the meps who have intervened, that there will be a high degree of consensus between the commission and parliament on developing a market that functions, a market which is fit for the targets we have in our climate policy, and a market which brings us affordable, secure and clean energy. on that we all agree, and now we have to put all the tools in place to achieve it.
in writing. – heating and cooling consume half of the eu’s energy. what is shocking, however, is the fact that around 84% of this is still generated by fossil fuels. bottom line – we are still far off our aims and targets. heating and cooling have a direct and important impact on the eu economy. for this reason, and also due to its size, we need to discuss and address the sector’s competitiveness, decarbonisation and energy security. their direct impact on our citizens and our households means that affordability and energy poverty are essential topics that need to be addressed, as do the geographical, economic and climate differences among our member states. currently, heating and cooling are produced and consumed locally within a fragmented european market. consumers need to be at the heart of a strategy for heating and cooling. they need to be empowered to participate and have control over their demand. moreover, the reality of southern european countries need to be taken into account, particularly where member states like malta require extensive infrastructural changes to adopt and implement the proposed strategy.
we have thousands of european citizens, thousands of children who every year end up seriously ill and worse. and the cause of this is pollution in our cities. we are not saying anything new. but we should have clear laws against it, but to this day, unfortunately, it's the opposite. the situation we are facing is not limited to one car manufacturer. we have more than one company generating pollution - in some cases, ten times the legal limit. we cannot continue to have national authorities that take no action against car companies that abuse the rules. we cannot accept any more a situation where car manufacturers feel sufficiently confident that national authorities will continue to hold them back. our aim is to make sure that no one is playing by the rules. that is why we must continue to investigate, ask questions, draw conclusions and make our recommendations, so that these things do not happen again.
in writing. ‒ at a time of economic recession and resulting budget constraints, and in an increasingly competitive global environment, i believe that it is important that the european union keeps improving its capacity to innovate. ris3 strategies are a valuable tool to tackle the innovation gap, and boost jobs and growth in europe. simplification, as well as coordination of the existing programmes, is also essential in contributing to a good implementation of those strategies in the years to come. a review of the strategies after 2017 is essential to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of ris3 strategies, taking into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the proper functioning of a digital single market requires high-quality skilled jobs with smart specialisation that could lead to new skills, knowledge, innovation and employment in order to better exploit research results and take advantage of all forms of innovation. i support therefore the call upon the eu and the member states to use existing tools such as the community innovation survey (cis) to carry out periodic (annual and mid-term) monitoring – both quantitative and qualitative on of the implementation of the strategies, and to involve all stakeholders, including civil society in the exercise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the main areas outlined, where improvement for ris3 should be carried out. the coordinated and complementary use of esi funds together with horizon 2020 and efsi, provides excellent options for boosting innovation at regional, national and eu levels. this strategy is fundamentally important to create a knowledge-based economy, sustainable growth and balances development and high quality jobs in all regions. this increases performance and also contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on delivering research and innovation funds to less-developed and rural regions. the report expresses parliament’s support for the ris3 platform and points out ways that they can improve through greater oversight, planning and participation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3), which aims to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions. smart specialisation strategies support thematic concentration and strategic programming of the european structural and investment funds and lead to increased performance orientation on the ground, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ the survey flash eurobarometer ‘cross-border cooperation in the eu’ (2015) established that the majority of the people living in eu border regions are not aware of eu-funded cross-border cooperation activities in their region falling under the umbrella of european territorial cooperation (etc). therefore, i agree that more effective communication on the results and achievements from completed projects is needed and also to enhance synergies with the other eu-funded programmes/initiatives. i also believe that all parties involved in etc should provide critical analysis of project thematic achievements in order to provide recommendations for post-2020, and at the same time ensuring for projects a high level of quality, transparency and closeness to citizens. i agree with this report.
in writing. – i agree with the rapporteur in advocating greater respect for territorial cohesion, in particular islands when implementing cohesion policy. there are intrinsic peculiarities which need to be addressed through this funding tool. in this sense it is disappointing to note the outcome of the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020 regarding the cut in appropriations for etc. i agree that an increased budget for etc in the next programming period will boost the added value of cohesion policy. member states need to simplify national provisions urging the implementation of e-cohesion and streamlining of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it highlights the importance for the commission and member states of working towards preserving european territorial cooperation. i strongly believe that this cooperation is a fundamental basis for the european integration process and that it should be given a more distinct role within cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it notes the successes that have been brought about through the interregional cooperation facilitated by european territorial cooperation programmes. however, it also notes that that these programmes do not have enough visibility amongst the union’s citizens and that more needs to be done for these programmes to be used to their greatest effectiveness and reach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation since it is important to share best practices and innovative measures. one of the important elements of this report is that it calls on the commission and member states to work towards preserving european territorial cooperation as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process by allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post 2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it sets out the need for cooperation from all those entities involved in order to be able to implement its mandate effectively. amongst others it asks the commission to ensure prompt support and full transparency in assisting the work of the committee of inquiry, in particular through swifter submission of requested documentation; expects full cooperation from the relevant current commissioners and directorate-generals as well as from those who were in charge during past terms. it asks the member states, to provide the committee with the necessary technical and political support, by enabling the commission to submit documents that are requested more swiftly and, if necessary by accelerating their internal proceedings for the granting of such consent.
in writing. – there are alleged failures in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector which need to be investigated. i agree that the results of the ongoing investigation could bring added value to the union’s type-approval framework support all measures needed to enable the committee of inquiry to fulfil its mandate.
in writing. ‒ following the outbreak of the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament set up the committee of inquiry into the emission measurements of the automotive sector. this report represents the committee’s first six months of work. the report pushes for transparency and asks for assistance from actors involved. together with my colleagues of the emis committee, i have been working to reform the emission measurements in the automotive sector while also ensuring that europeans’ health is safeguarded. i believe that as the work of this committee progresses, more evidence is collected and the picture becomes more clear, these elements are crucial to have effective and reliable emissions measurements which is crucially important in safeguarding the health of our citizens. this is why i have voted in favour of this report, which will be a stepping stone into the second half of the inquiry committee’s mandate.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is essential that parliament’s committees, especially its committees of inquiry, receive the necessary support for them to fulfil their mandates. it is important for member states and for the commission to comply with the committee’s requests for information in a prompt and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which recalls the principle of good cooperation between the institutions, insists on full transparency and asks all actors involved to provide the necessary assistance for the fulfilment of the committee’s mandate. the interim report is a purely technical report as at this point in time it is premature to draw any definite conclusions from the work of the inquiry committee.
in writing. – the waiver was requested for parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, istván ujhelyi, in connection with proceedings before it. the report grants the waiver on criminal proceedings relating to the crime of defamation, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour for the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi, because in this way he can prove his innocence or otherwise in full compliance with the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi, since he was brought before the central district court of pest criminal proceeding and was charged with having committed the crime of defamation pursuant to article 226(1) of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code.
in writing. – the report concerns the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, indicating that mr crocetta’s statements had a direct and obvious connection with his parliamentary duties. the report defends the immunity and privileges of rosario crocetta, i support it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the immunity of rosario crocetta because in this way he can prove his innocence or otherwise in front of the relevant judicial authorities.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta since his parliamentary record shows that he had always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states and was focused on the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, especially as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy. therefore, i have voted in favour of the decision to defend the immunity and privileges of mr rosario crocetta.
in writing. – i support the report granting waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos mep in connection with proceedings relating to an alleged offence
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the immunity of sotirios zarianopolus because in this way he can prove his innocence or otherwise in front of the relevant judicial authorities.
in writing. ‒ as a consequence of the accession of croatia, the customs union of the eu has grown and consequently in line with wto rules, the eu had to enter into negotiations with other wto members, in this particular case, china, having negotiated rights related to the tariff schedule of croatia. i give my consent to the proposal to conclude the agreement as it includes proportionate modifications to the concessions and is consistent with earlier practice and wto framework. it has also taken note of the commission reports stating that the relevant compensatory adjustments to china are proportionate and do not exceed china’s rights as affected by the withdrawal of croatia’s concessions to china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement relating to the accession of croatia as i believe that the trading rights should be restored. this fullfills the purpose of a customs union as rightly outlined in gatt.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is important that croatia, the newest member of our customs union, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to conclude the eu-china agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, as per the wto requirements. the commission has negotiated with china the issue of the withdrawal of specific concessions in relation to the withdrawal of the schedule of croatia in the course of its accession to the eu. therefore, i supported the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ as a consequence of the accession of croatia, the customs union of the eu has grown and consequently in line with wto rules, the eu had to enter into negotiations with other wto members, in this particular case, uruguay, having negotiated rights related to the tariff schedule of croatia. i give my consent to the proposal to conclude the agreement. the eu will incorporate in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 that of the eu 27 with modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat. in connection to the agreement, the european commission is also preparing an implementing regulation regarding several tariff rate quotas.
in writing. – the eu will incorporate in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 that of the eu 27 with modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat. in connection to the agreement, the european commission is also preparing an implementing regulation regarding several tariff rate quotas. i concord with the rapporteur to grant european parliament’s consent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-uruguay agreement which takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and adapting the tariff schedule as per the wto requirements. i support this agreement, which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and uruguay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is important that croatia, the newest member of our customs union, is included in existing conventions and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to conclude the eu-uruguay agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and adapting the tariff schedule, as per the wto requirements. therefore, i supported the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. – i have no reason not to support the cont members’ decision to grant favourable opinion on the council’s nomination of lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of lazaros stavrou lazarou’s mandate as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe that he has proved himself competent and well qualified for the post.
in writing. – i have no reason not to support the favourable opinion on the council’s nomination of joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe that he has proved himself competent and well qualified for the post.
in writing. the nomination of leo brincat for a position on the court of auditors was rejected by 381 meps. this means that this vote was not the pn against the government. this was a vote by representatives of european citizens against the way joseph muscat used power to protect konrad mizzi in the panama papers scandal. in europe, institutionalized corruption is unacceptable. the fact that muscat is resisting and defying the will of parliament and is sticking his head in the sand and is leading this nomination before the council of a person who obeyed and voted in favour of konrad mizzi despite the financial services scandal in which mizzi is found, shows how muscat is not ready to work for malta but is ready to work for those around him.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of leo brincat for the european court of auditors as he has the qualifications and experience needed for the job. coming from malta myself, i truly believe that leo brincat’s experience as a minister for finance and commerce, and also as a founder member and chairperson of the public accounts committee within the house of representatives, is an asset for the european court of auditors. he also performed well in his hearing and proved himself to be competent and qualified to fill the role of eca member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the maltese candidate for the european court of auditors. mr brincat’s capabilities and qualifications for the post were never in question. those are what he should have been judged on and what i based my vote on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as in its current state the agreement is essentially in line with the original commission proposal with the exceptions of some minor changes. the agreement also now takes into consideration the outcome of the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making adopted in plenary in march 2016. the aim of the commission proposal is to amend regulation 471/2009 on community statistics relating to trade with non-member countries to the new institutional context of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as i believe that the negotiations and the outcomes further strengthen the regulation. this will lead to better decision making rules in trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this legislative resolution, following the changes to the new inter-institutional agreement on better law-making which will allow the commission to make changes to regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aligns the previous comitology regime to the post-lisbon treaty rules on delegated and implementing acts in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ currently, the collection of data for natural gas and electricity prices charged to household end-users has been carried out on a voluntary basis. in order to ensure high quality reporting of price data for both the household and the-household sector, the commission considered that the collection of both types of data should be covered by a legal act. i agree with the report and believe that in order to not let the quality of the survey of the electricity and natural gas price data for the household sector deteriorate significantly, and in order to continue to achieve a wide market coverage and high quality of price data, this step is necessary.
in writing. – i support the call to define the procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users. a good understanding of the taxes, fees, levies and charges in each member state is essential for ensuring price transparency. the importance of a breakdown of the data on network costs, taxes, fees, levies and charges is also a must, as the report rightly underlines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution as it seeks to ensure that the quality of data related to electricity and natural gas for the household sector remains of a high standard by making reporting obligatory.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is a big potential to strengthen the internal market for energy and to allow electricity to move freely to also benefit cross-border competition and provide the right signals for investments. improved integration and coordination of energy markets means that there are many opportunities to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally-sound energy supply. i generally support the ideas set out in this report and voted in favour.
in writing. – as a union we endeavour to promote energy efficiency savings, the development of renewable energy and the interconnection of energy networks. such are essential in defining the member states’ energy mix and the conditions governing the use of their energy resources which nonetheless remains a national competence. i support the call for proactively involving the civil society stakeholders in designing a flexible and decentralised european internal market in electricity in order to enhance coordination between national transition strategies whereby fees and taxes are to be applied fairly, avoiding double costs for the charging and discharging of energy and resulting in a market which rewards fast-reacting and flexible sources. this provides an essential contribution towards the creation of an eu-wide electricity market providing clear price signals for new investments.
in writing. ‒ our electricity supply is changing – moving away from the traditional, centralised, base-load power supply towards a system which is based on variable renewables. this is why we need to move towards a new energy market design which adapts and takes into account the elements of a changing energy supply. i am in favour of this report, as i believe that we need to move towards an energy market based on consumer needs whilst ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which has the interests of the union’s customers as its main focus. it takes note of the changes in the energy market and how the union must react in order to make changes in line with recent developments such as the increased presence of renewables with market-driven remuneration. the report also supports the need for a long-term strategy and policy in the field of energy to make the most of investments; therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report towards a new energy market design because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ the commission has launched the first ever strategy to tackle heating and cooling efficiently. this is one of the priorities of the eu especially when it is consists of the eu’s biggest energy sector and i fully agree. the report points out at the local character and potential of heating and cooling. the strategy includes amongst others plans to boost the energy efficiency of buildings and the use of renewable energy. i believe it is important that there is access to finance for investments to modernising the heating and cooling system and a focus on the research and technological innovation for european industry. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling is the largest energy sector especially in homes around the european union. high efficiency cogeneration heat plants and reversible heat-cooling pumps are needed for northern and mediterranean countries. i am in favour of this report which highlights the need for architectural solutions, the modernisation of heating and cooling appliance as well the greater use of district heating and renewables. we need to keep in mind that heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – therefore it is highly important to reduce this demand and make the sector more efficient. i voted in favour of this eu strategy which addresses energy poverty, reduces emissions and also brings down costs to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is essential that cooling is given the same level of importance as heating, especially as our summers are becoming warmer each year. the report also consistently highlights the need to tackle co2 emissions and the importance of green technologies in the areas of heating and cooling, as they make up the major share of the union’s energy demand.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand - which is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
mr president, smes account for 99% of all eu businesses and provide about two-thirds of employment in europe. this makes them an indispensable sector in stabilising the european economy and creating jobs and growth in europe. one of the biggest challenges smes encounter on a daily basis is that of difficult access to affordable finance. unfortunately, the current instruments are insufficient and do not provide smes, especially micro and small enterprises, with the necessary means to finance investment. we must put in place the right environment and create the right opportunities for our smes to thrive and invest in the future. therefore, i support the report, which not only underlines the importance of better access to financing for smes but also highlights the need to simplify relevant administrative procedures for continuous information and training on projects, and stresses the crucial role of local government in the proper utilisation of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential for the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness and the report underscores the importance of doubling the support offered through cohesion policy to smes for the 2014-2020 period. in the new programming period, among other possibilities, investments in smes will be made also through the esi funds under the broad theme of ‘competitiveness of smes’. it is important to increase funding for the strengthening of the competitiveness of smes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – we have 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu, which account for around 99% of all businesses; making a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation. having said that we only have 13% of european smes which are engaged in commercial activities and investments in the global markets. i share the concern expressed in this report on a skills gap with regard to ict skills that should be dealt with by placing more emphasis on relevant training and education; improving access to finance, providing more information, simplifying legislation, cutting red tape and promoting e-cohesion amongst society stakeholders. in this sense, operational programmes should be fine-tuned to support research and development, particularly smes to increase their capacity to submit patent applications to the european patent office. these require viable and user-friendly financing schemes to achieve the scopes aimed at.
in writing. ‒ this report calls the commission amongst others, to consider the circular economy package and cop21, to consider reduction of austerity policies, raising awareness on financial sources of smes, coordination among all eu investment policies, acceleration of cohesion policy and sharing of best practices between member states. it also underlines the need to reduce administrative burdens and better access to financing. i am in favour of this report as it really and truly enhances the competitiveness of smes which i believe are the future of development and economic prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it reiterates parliament’s commitment to smes. the report urges further action, using existing measures, to support our smes, namely by making them aware of possible financing opportunities, investment from member states and implementation of the cohesion policy areas related to smes.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the alpine macro-region has huge potential, and joint planning by the countries and regions in the area, coupled with close involvement of local authorities and public and private bodies, can help to realise that potential. the aim is to pursue common objectives for the area as a whole that are in keeping with the sustainable development, environmental and energy objectives set under the europe 2020 strategy, and projects of a macro-regional scale are therefore required in order to meet those objectives. it underlines the importance of integrated economic strategies between the underutilisation of resources in some upland areas and the concentration of manufacturing activities in lowland areas. i agree with this way forward and voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i support the concept of a bottom-up strategic territorial planning as opposed to the traditional top-down approach adopted by the commission with instruments such as the espon programme. this is instrumental to counter the depopulation of the region, especially the outflow of young people.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) is fundamental as it improves the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, accessibility and transport links for everyone in the alpine region and ensures sustainability in the alps. i believe that these pillars provide solutions to the common problems and challenges in the alpine region and that this strategy ensures that the role of the european union in such regions is fulfilled. these are the main reasons why i am in favour of this strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it notes the particular difficulties that the alpine region faces as well as its heritage that present ample opportunities for citizens working in the region. the union needs to do all that it can to support regions that face inherent geographic difficulties when accessing the common market.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because it is important to provide solutions to the common problems and challenges in the alpine region.
mr president, for as long as i have been a member of the european parliament, i have repeatedly called on the member states and the commission to join up their efforts and tackle the root causes of migration, which is the only way forward in terms of providing a genuine response to the migration crisis in the eu and in africa. the trust fund launched at the valletta summit on migration is designed to help foster stability in the african regions and contribute to better migration management. most importantly, the fund will help address the root causes of irregular migration by stimulating investment and boosting sustainable growth, and through job creation in the african countries where most migrants come from. we have to ensure accountability, transparency and proper management of funds. we have to ensure well planned investments so that the proposed billions really benefit the citizens through projects which improve education, healthcare and infrastructure. throwing money at the problem without due vigilance and commitment will not solve the migration crisis. therefore i gave the report my vote.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund was created to support the most affected african countries in order to help foster stability in these regions and promote tighter africa-eu cooperation on issues of migration management, security and development and thus minimise the unprecedented levels of irregular migration reaching our shores. the report addresses many questions and concerns by the creation of this fund and its financing, implementation and scrutiny. the report offers a critical assessment in terms of financing by member states and calls on all stakeholders to uphold their commitments and responsibilities to make it successful. although i commend the importance of this fund and its success, i could not vote in favour of this report as it contained references to the sexual and reproductive health and rights.
in writing. – the report highlights the potential of social and economic benefits for africa by enabling young people with the education and skills to realise their potential and creating employment opportunities to foster stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region. to promote laudable provisions against human trafficking and smuggling of vulnerable people and safeguards in favour of women’s rights and lgbti persons, the eu should not impose obligations of a moral nature on its member states. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu should systematically monitor how the eutf funds are employed and how they are allocated by increasing our scrutiny powers.
in writing. ‒ the role of the eu trust fund for africa to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management is crucially important since it specifically aims to address the root causes of destabilisation leading to a significant number of persons fleeing their countries. it seeks to promote resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities and security and development. this eu trust fund launched at the valletta summit, is another piece of the puzzle in the eu’s response to migration crisis and this is why i voted in favour. however, i believe that more needs to be done to ensure transparency at european level and that member states need to contribute more in order to really and truly address this crisis.
in writing. ‒ whilst the report outlined positive ways in which the union can further its support for african migration management, i could not support the final version of the text, which contained unacceptable references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ work-life balance is an important element that needs to be addressed in order to address gender stereotypes and raise awareness on equal treatment in respect to work-life balance. i can concur with the ideas presented in the report, but on the other hand, i believe that we need to be careful not to trample over the subsidiary principle, whereabouts certain matters fall squarely within member states’ competence.
in writing. – it is high time to step up protection against discrimination and unlawful dismissal related to work-life balance, which particularly affect female workers. as the report states, we need to ensure that women are paid and covered by social protection for the duration of maternity leave in order to support families and combat inequalities, strengthen women’s social and economic independence and avoid them being financially penalised for having children. women are increasingly well-qualified, even outperforming men in terms of educational attainment and yet they continue to be under-represented in the labour market, or employed in jobs below their skill level. overall low pay, a higher concentration in part-time work and greater interruptions in careers due to caring for others (children and/or dependent relatives) contribute to a greater risk of poverty and social exclusion for women as well as a large gender pension gap.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to adequately address work-life balance and avoid unintended negative consequences on women or men, the gender perspective has to be mainstreamed in order to address discrimination and gender stereotypes and thus ensure equal opportunities to both women and men. furthermore, i believe that single parents and lgbti couples, parents from minorities, parents with disabilities and other families should not be discriminated against based on the fact that they are non-conventional. i believe that all families should be celebrated in all shapes and forms and this is adequately addressed in this report which promotes more pragmatic solutions to work-life balance, which is an essential element of family life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that calls for the union to deliver solutions on the issues of work-life balance and gender equality. the report calls on the commission, member states and stakeholders to propose ways in which a balance can be achieved that suits the work-life needs of both women and men by taking advantage of the ever-evolving digital age in which we live.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on creating labour market conditions favourable for work-life balance because it is time to assess our demographic and socioeconomic challenges and adopt a package of legislative and non-legislative policies to promote work-life balance to ensure workers enter, remain and return to the labour market, and can reconcile professional, private and family life.
i would first of all, before i begin, like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the very great work they have done over the last few weeks. and i will speak specifically to convey a political message rather than the technical aspect that i have prepared, because after all the work, even when we reached the committee stage, today we managed to find a balance, a very important balance, a balance that i want to maintain so that, by tomorrow, we will be able to vote in favour of this report. and so, comments such as we have heard from the socialist party against my party, at this moment, are not acceptable and we must be careful that this balance that we have found after so many weeks of working together, this balance remains there. now we, both on this side of the chamber and on that side of the chamber, have become sacrifices - we have lost a part, you have lost a part. and today we are, not 100% content, but content with what we have in front of us. and so, my appeal until tomorrow is that we leave this balance as we have all worked together over these past weeks. thank you very much for your work, thank you all and let's, in these last seconds, leave everything as we planned. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. may i just ask, which party are you from, madam president? of which party is the master speaking?
answer to blue paper. at the very beginning, when i was speaking, i was talking about a political balance that was found between all the political groups. now i don't know the gentleman who was supposed to represent him in the shadow meetings that were held, which i think were the record of meetings that we ever had on reports that were own initiative reports. and i think that, if we find that balance, they may not be happy at all, but of course that balance, i repeat, is very important.
in writing. – an analysis of the state of the eu today needs a long—range critical review of events over the last twenty years or so. the current angst cannot be blamed uniquely on the 2008 crisis from which the eu still has not freed itself. its roots go back to the after—effects of policies adopted in the 1990s under the call for enlargement and deepening of the union. that vision was unfortunately also driven by huge soft power that was frequently misunderstood and misused. consequently, and not just because of the 2008 crisis, the european union is now seriously unbalanced – politically, economically, territorially and socially. unsurprisingly, the council has become the real powerhouse of the union, even if there stalemate is frequently the order of the day. the way forward is not through further projects for institutional change, conducted by ‘stealth’ or by ‘convention’, which are then used to justify wider changes. the way forward is through consolidation of existing structures and policies, guided politically and not market—based, also premised on the need to promote real social justice within the union. in the current situation, consolidation – though vital – would still be a tough and complex project.
in writing. ‒ i agree to give my consent to the present agreement between the eu and switzerland on the free movement of persons, in order to take into account the latest accession, that of croatia, to the eu. since its signature in 2000, the agreement has been extended twice to take into consideration the enlargements of 2004 and 2007.
in writing. – switzerland is the eu’s 4th largest trading partner, right after the united states, china and russia, with over one million eu citizens who live in switzerland, and another 230 000 who cross the border daily to go to work. i agree with the scope of the report to build further on the 20 principal agreements and over 120 bilateral agreements since 2000 provided for in the acquis communautaire to facilitate movement and the provision of services in the territory of the contracting parties. i understand that quantitative limits should be set for each year of the protocol’s seven-year implementation with quotas for each year.
in writing. ‒ the european union and switzerland benefit from a number of bilateral agreements on a number of issues, including free movement of persons, overland transport, air transport, agriculture and research, as well as technical barriers to trade and public procurement. following the accession of croatia to the european union, these eu agreements had to be amended in order to take the 28th member state into account. for this reason i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important that croatia, the newest member state, is included in existing conventions and agreements and is an equal partner in our european union.
in writing. ‒ it is beyond doubt that both croatia and switzerland will politically, culturally and economically benefit from the signature of the present protocol iii. free movement is a crucial element and can hence not be separated from internal market participation. that is why i voted in favour of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it confirmed the practice of inviting the chair of parliament’s employment and social committee to the tripartite social summit for growth and employment. this factor was still missing in the draft council decision which laid out the basis of the new setup of this summit, following the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. – i agree with the conclusion of the report which is to support the outcome of this summit. fruit may be reaped by getting employers and trade unions to dialogue together for lasting solutions in employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as i believe that european parliament’s role as co-legislator in the tripartite social summit for growth and employment is crucially important, and parliament should be represented by the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs on a regular basis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution as it will institutionalise the practice of high-level consultation between the eu institutions and the eu social partners related to jobs and growth in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment since it is essential that the european parliament, represented by the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, is invited to the summit on a regular basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that there should be progress towards a single uniform set of technical standards through cesni (the european committee for drawing up common standards in the field of inland navigation). this would provide legal certainty and timely adaptations to technical progress, thus ensuring high safety standards on all eu waterways, innovation and that safety in the sector is not hampered. i believe that the commission should be delegated the power for updating the reference to the most recent version of the cesni standard and setting the date of application and adopt legal acts accordingly.
in writing. – i support a uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union in view of ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. the report is also in favour of a swift adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress, taking into account standards developed by international organisations, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the technical requirements for vessels should be applied and regularly updated for all eu member states. this would significantly contribute to more efficient, dynamic and safe transport on inland waterways throughout the eu and would also facilitate the introduction and use of new innovative technologies, including in respect of technical standards in the inland waterway sector. for this reason i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution aims to prove greater legal certainty and ensure high safety standards on all eu waterways whilst not hampering innovation; therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims in first instance to achieve harmonisation of the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels at eu level. the same technical requirements for vessels should be applied, and regularly updated, for the entirety of the union’s inland waterways. this would contribute significantly to more efficient, dynamic and safe transport on inland waterways throughout the eu and would also facilitate the use of new and innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to this economic and partnership agreement as it is the first agreement with africa as a continent, rather than unilateral concessions. it was a long process but should be considered a success for the eu and could pave the way for other such agreements in the near future.
in writing. – i agree to commit parties to facilitate regional trade by boosting customs cooperation and by implementing reforms, in particular by simplifying procedures and regulations in the sadc region, facilitating transit and fighting fraud. i believe that this epa has the potential to bring fundamental positive change and contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepened intra-regional trade and integration. moreover the trade and partnership agreement can only be a small part of a larger strategy. the sadc states should conduct trade and development-friendly domestic policies and pursue structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the deepening of europe’s partnership with the sadc epa states is important, as it improves regional integration and assists the region to integrate into the global market. this agreement also includes novel features such as geographical indications. i am in favour of duty-free and quote-free access for botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland while also offering south africa the opportunity of new market access. however, i strongly believe that civil society should be involved in the monitoring and scrutiny of such agreements.
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the southern african development community (sadc) epa group aims to combat poverty through an asymmetric trade partnership, promote regional integration and facilitate greater cooperation between all parties. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution and the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc epa states, which reflects the ongoing commitments of the eu towards africa by engaging in a range of efforts, amongst them economic and trade cooperation. the sadc epa agreement with botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland is also orientated towards development, supporting economic diversification in these african states, promoting democracy and sustainable development, as well as strengthening regional integration in southern africa. undoubtedly, this agreement benefits both sides and offers a window of opportunity for both the eu and africa to further strengthen their economic, political and social ties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement concluded between the social partners concerning the implementation of the work in fishing convention, 2007, of the international labour organisation. the ilo work in fishing convention (no 188), along with recommendation (no 199), covers essential matters to ensure decent working and living conditions on board vessels, specially since workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels in comparison with other sectors and the hazardous working environment and odd working hours.
in writing. – i understand that workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels; the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases. as to minimum standard requirements we should allow member states to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the area concerned. this applies to self-employed fishers working alongside workers on the same vessel. i feel that the report is right in requiring further development of provisions related to wages, social protection and social security in order to ensure an adequate and decent income for workers and their families.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal aims at improving the work conditions for those employed in the fishing sector due to their injury rate being 15 times higher than other jobs. people in the fishing sector face harsh conditions with long hours at sea, unpredictable circumstances and hard labour. the report recommends the immediate adoption of the council directive. in committee, this passed with a large majority. to protect workers’ rights and have harmonised labour standards, i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and the agreement that was reached as it allows member states the flexibility to adopt measures that are more favourable to workers in the area concerned.
in writing. ‒ the fishing industry has grown considerably. this growth, however, hasn’t come without a cost – in terms of working conditions and occupational safety – to full and part-time workers in the fishing sector. people in the fishing sector often face harsh or difficult working conditions: they may spend long periods at sea and are frequently exposed to unpredictable and dangerous conditions. adopting these international labour standards for what is one of the world's most dangerous professions is extremely important to protect workers and provide them with decent working conditions. that is why i voted in favour of the report
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to stress the fundamental importance of guaranteeing that the common european values listed in article 2 of the teu and those in the polish constitution are upheld in full and that fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights are guaranteed. i am concerned that the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal is endangering democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in poland. another matter of concern and regret is that so far no compromise solution has been found and that the venice commission’s recommendations of 11 march 2016 have not been implemented. i welcome the commission’s determination to pursue a constructive and productive dialogue with the polish government with a view to finding swift and concrete solutions to the systemic threats to the rule of law.
in writing. – it is of fundamental importance to guarantee that the common european values listed in article 2 of the teu and in the polish constitution are upheld in full and that fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights are guaranteed. there are no ifs and buts. a country is in paralysis if the constitutional tribunal is not functioning properly. this endangers democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. but dialogue needs to be impartial, evidence-based and cooperative while also respecting the competences of the eu and its member states. i join the rapporteur in urging the commission to carry out an assessment of the legislation adopted as regards its compatibility with primary and secondary eu law and with the values on which the union is founded.
in writing. ‒ the current composition of the constitutional tribunal, and its non-publication of judgments, and the new amendments to the act on public media among others, has prompted us as members of parliament to vote on a resolution to address these issues. the commission has also opened a dialogue with the polish government under the rule of law framework in order to ensure full respect for the rule of law but the polish authorities still have not taken the necessary steps towards a resolution. politicians’ objectives should not be to go against the fundamental values and rights of the eu and individuals, and that is why i voted in favour of this report. as i have done in the past, i have voted against all clauses relating to abortion, as i strongly believe that, under the treaty, such an issue should remain a member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this cross-party resolution on the situation in poland as it stresses the importance of protecting and promoting european values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, since i agree with the text. however, i have never supported, and i have voted against, any references to abortion and to women’s sexual and reproductive health rights, which, in my opinion, are strictly a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ my vote on this motion carries the following reservations: i am not convinced that when the european parliament is seeking to censure the actions of governments of our member states, we are following comparable methods of assessment and applying ‘principles’ to situations in a transparent and fair manner. in most situations of national crisis and controversy, especially in polarised democracies, the partisan clash of political formations can be huge and intimately influenced by the subterranean strategies being followed by vested interests. assessing rights and wrongs in such situations can be extremely difficult even for objective observers within the national context (should they exist). doing so from within this parliament is even more complex and liable to error. our deliberations here are also subject – though we may try to believe otherwise – to political calculations and manipulations, extraneous to the national situation about which we try to reach a judgement. frankly in the case of poland, though ideologically i disagree with the approaches and beliefs of its present government, i doubt whether sufficient weight has been given to the anti-democratic distortions of the previous government which have led to what one could all the ‘over’-reactions of the present one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important within the context of the current regional turmoil to support tunisia and the people’s representative assembly for the process of democratisation of the country within this volatile regional context. the european parliament is urging the eu and member states, amongst other things, to mobilise and better coordinate substantial technical and financial resources to support tunisia.
in writing. – the eu can facilitate tunisia’s democratic process through the creation of an enabling environment with the necessary structures for civil society organisations to be included in the decision-making process. there should be a commitment to the tunisian people and the political transition process that began in 2011 which, while it consolidates its democratic process, implements the reforms needed to achieve social and economic prosperity and guarantees its security; the eu and the member states are urged to mobilise and better coordinate substantial technical and financial resources in order to provide concrete support for tunisia, not excluding a real ‘marshall plan’ as advocated by the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia’s consolidation is paramount for stability in the region. the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia demands better support to contribute to capacity-building for the tunisian institutions, justice sector and security reforms. i am in favour of this report as i believe that the democratic transition in tunisia is to be supported both politically and economically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in which parliament calls on the union to continue its support of the tunisian people and people’s representative assembly (pra) on their path of democratisation in an exceedingly complex and challenging regional context.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context because tunisia represents a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region. it is crucial that the democratic transition in tunisia be consolidated and supported politically and economically. the terrorist attacks have had a devastating effect on the economy, and unemployment, especially among young people, remains high. the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia demands more and better support to contribute to capacity building for the tunisian institutions, justice sector and security reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that increasing worker mobility within the single market is positive. it stimulates the eu’s economic development, as well as enhancing social and cultural cohesion. these workers play a part in addressing the mismatch between available employee skills and the needs of the marketplace. i believe that we must protect the internal market, but there must also be safeguards to prevent abuse. when there are shortcomings in european legislation we should work to address them. but this cannot be done in a vacuum. we need proper enforcement of these rules through controls which are able to detect and prevent abuse, abuse of all kinds, be it tax avoidance, unfair competition or undeclared work. we should cooperate together with member states to ensure that all european workers’ rights are respected.
in writing. – the report favours the establishment of wage floors in the form of a national minimum wage, where applicable, with due respect for the practices of each member state. such debate should be undertaken in full concordance with the social partners with the objective of gradually attaining at least 60% of the respective national average wage, if possible, so as to avoid excessive wage disparities. it is evident that a pay gap still exists and, despite existing eu legislation and soft-law recommendations, progress in this area is extremely limited. the situation is exacerbated by social dumping which doesn’t help. this accentuates a wider gender pension gap that puts elderly women at greater risk of poverty than elderly men. i support specific recommendations the report makes to the member states as part of the european semester, to incorporate opinions on social issues with a view to enhancing worker protection through convergence
in writing. ‒ social dumping in europe is unacceptable. we need to have a strong voice in helping to build a more social europe. we need to safeguard each and every person working in member countries and ensure that they are all treated equally. this also helps to generate more support from european citizens. i strongly agree and support this report, as we need to fight against social dumping practices and ensure that all workers in europe enjoy high levels of social protection and rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that calls on member states to increase cooperation to combat cross-border abuses in workers’ rights and protect social rights by combating tax evasion and tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the eu, which expresses our engagement in fighting against social dumping practices and ensures that all workers in europe enjoy high levels of social protection and rights – something which is essential.
in writing. – i agree that it is misleading to investors to remove credit risk from the calculation of risk categorisation of insurance products. the lack of detailed guidance in the delegated regulation on the ‘comprehension alert’ creates a serious risk of inconsistent implementation of this element in the key information document across the single market. to this effect i support the call to submit a new delegated act which takes account of the above concern.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) introduces a key information document or a simple document giving key facts to investors in a clear, comparable and understandable manner, covering not only collective investment schemes but also other ‘packaged’ investment products offered by banks or insurance companies. the protection of retail investors through better information on investment products was one of s&d’s main aims following the 2008 crisis. i believe that retail investors need to be protected, which is why i voted in favour of this regulation for it to be put forward to the council and governments of member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution that rejects the delegated regulation as parliament’s position on this matter was not taken into consideration when the commission drafted the delegated regulation in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for an agreement to be reached on rules for information for non-professional investors, because such information is critical in the current environment. the regulatory technical standards should be changed so that issuers of investment products are obliged to show their cards and indicate all the risks they sell to non-professional investors. the regulation should enter into force 1 january 2017, as planned, with improved content.
member of the commission. – madam president, ensuring the effective return of irregular migrants is a cornerstone of a successful and sustainable migration policy. it is equally essential for our citizens to maintain trust in the european union’s overall migration system, and to dissuade more unsafe and irregular migration in the future. the lack of valid travel documents is one of the main obstacles hampering the effective return of irregular migrants from the european union. this situation can be solved using a replacement travel document issued by the competent authorities of the member states. however, to be valid and used in practice, this document needs to be recognised by third countries. there has been a model for a standard travel document for the expulsion of third—country nationals since 1994. however, member states do not use it very much. third countries with which a readmission agreement is under negotiation criticise that its unsatisfactory security features and standards make it vulnerable to falsification and fraud. that is why the commission proposed a regulation to address these issues by establishing a new european travel document for the return of third-country nationals. this travel document will set a uniform european format with enhanced technical and security features. in particular, it complies with precise security features that minimise the risks of counterfeiting and falsification. in order not to create additional administrative burdens, the security features will follow those already applied to our very european union’s official documents in relation to visas. the new format and more secure features of the european travel document for return should help facilitate the acceptance of this document by third countries. this is an important technical instrument which will help to strengthen the particular challenges in the european union’s return policy. but it should be seen as one element out of many. it is part of a wider strategy, set by the action plan on return of september 2015, aimed at supporting member states’ efforts to facilitate the return and readmission of irregular migrants in full respect of their fundamental rights and of the standards and procedures set by the return directive and international agreements. to conclude, i would like to express my thanks to our rapporteur, mr halla-aho, the shadow rapporteurs and the libe committee for their strong support and excellent collaboration throughout the legislative process.
on behalf of the s&d group. other a credible immigration policy that enjoys the confidence of citizens - as you also referred to, commissioner - must be made up of a number of different policies, including on relocation, on resettlement, but just as important, on return. migrants whose application for asylum is rejected and others who do not qualify for protection should return to their country safely and in full respect of their rights. and this is a very important point for us socialists and democrats. in fact, to date, the european union system for the return of irregular migrants who are not legally present in the european union is not effective, and the recognition of the current return document is, in fact, very low, as this document is not being accepted by the authorities of third countries for a number of reasons. the harmonisation of a more secure european document for the return of irregular migrants should facilitate the return and readmission of persons residing illegally in the european union, while ensuring that third countries respect their international obligations. it is gratifying to me, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, that through the negotiations we have held, we have succeeded in ensuring respect for fundamental human rights under international and european law and, in particular, the rights of the child. we now need member states to ensure the effective use of the european return document and to promote this document in both bilateral and eu-wide readmission agreements. as we have heard, this document will not solve the european union's migration crisis. however, together with pragmatic policies and initiatives we can step up the pace towards implementing a strong law that can begin to seriously address the migration crisis that we face. if you allow me, madam president, i would just like to thank the rapporteur, commission and council for their great collaboration on this legislation.
i too would like to start by thanking laura for the great work she has done to enable us to discuss this important document today with all the shadow rapporteurs. because i would say that there was a common effort in the committee on employment and social affairs to have this very important document today because it is, after all, about work, work which is of course very important for various sectors. and although we are seeing economic recovery, we must remember that it is very fragile. and we must also say that, although the employment rate is increasing, we are still far behind, that is, even in several regions across europe. i am shocked by the way a representative of the efdd, mr aker, is speaking, who is happy that his country is now going to leave the european union. i don't think we need to hear lessons from him about how we're going to go about it from now on because i think the only concern he should have now is that, without the european union's internal market, i was expecting him to talk and tell us about how jobs are going to be created in the uk, now that they've decided to leave the european union. but how are we to continue to run our europe? i don't think we need to take lessons from anyone. as president juncker said this morning, europe will go on, europe will move on, and europe faces the same challenges as all countries in the world. i also regret very much that the council is not present today, as laura and all those who have spoken before me have rightly said. but i am glad to hear that the commissioner is doing his best for us. and i think i have never seen, in the 12 years i have been in this parliament, a commissioner who is so dedicated to this work, to this social area which is crucial to us. the 2020 strategy is important; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. so let us not give up, let us keep moving, and thank you, so that we can all move together to make this europe better than it is today.
smes are the lifeblood of the european economy. working to strengthen smes is a means of securing jobs now and in the future within the european union. as long as they can operate in a free market, and in a free market there are of course those member states which are members of the european union, which are within this family, we are naturally looking at how to give them more resources, remove the obstacles they may have found themselves in, especially during the financial crisis. of course, as has been said recently, in england in particular, when a country chooses to leave the european union, out is out. and so it is good that before one starts talking about what to negotiate when it comes to leaving the european union, one must understand that outside the european union you cannot have access to what is rightly the member states that form part of the european union. yes, we must think of this entrepreneurial spirit of people of all ages, and it should be encouraged and not discouraged in our european societies. we want the option of starting a business to be attractive and to encourage and stimulate the innovative spirit to succeed. do we have challenges? of course, we have challenges. have we walked enough? of course, it was not enough. but i think that, with all our experiences, with the work too and i want to thank our rapporteurs here who have worked to see this boost for smes we need to turn it into more work and we have places where unfortunately we have a lot of unemployment. and of course, if we boost smes, we are also solving the problem of unemployment in the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms weber, who prepared this comprehensive assessment of the application of the employment equality directive. discrimination on whatever grounds has no place in the union. therefore, the commission is strongly committed to ensuring that non-discrimination directives are effectively implemented, so as to foster a fairer and more inclusive society, including labour markets providing opportunities to all. the draft outline of the european pillar of social rights specifies that ‘labour market participation of under-represented groups shall be enhanced, ensuring equal treatment in all areas, including by raising awareness and addressing discrimination’. we cannot deny that recent statistics raised certain concerns. according to the 2015 eurobarometer survey on discrimination, there is at least a widespread perception of discrimination in the european union. 64% of the respondents were concerned about discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin, 58% for sexual orientation, 50% for disability and the same percentage for religious belief. however, we see positive developments. the survey shows, for example, that citizens are increasingly aware of their rights in this area, which is the first critical step in order to improve their enforcement. our joint implementation report from 2014 on the race and employment equality directives concluded that they were correctly transposed by member states. the report also pointed to the necessity of combining existing legislation with appropriate policy action by improving, specifically, awareness of rights, and indeed access to justice. your report rightly highlights, among others, all these aspects. the commission is committed to make full use of the directive on many fronts. let me mention just a few examples. firstly, we promote analysis and research on the situation across member states through the yearly comparative report on anti-discrimination in europe referred to in your report; through the report on sexual orientation-based discrimination; through the report on reasonable accommodation for disabled people in the employment context in the european union; through the report on intersexual discrimination in eu gender-equality and non-discrimination law; and through the ongoing study on equality data collection. we are fully aware that producing these reports is in itself not a solution, but understanding patterns of discrimination is crucial for informed policy-making and enforcement. secondly, the high level group on non-discrimination, equality and diversity facilitates the exchange of best practices. to improve awareness of rights and access to justice, we support the strengthening of the national equality bodies. we have run training, seminars and conferences such as the 2015 colloquium on fundamental rights, which focused on tolerance and respect, preventing and combating anti-semitic and anti-muslim hatred in europe, and the seminar focusing on multiple discrimination. moreover, we collaborate and support various organisations active in the field of anti-discrimination – the academy of european law, the european union fundamental rights agency and equinet, the well-known network of national equality bodies for the promotion of equal treatment. thirdly, in the legislative field, the 2008 proposal for an equal treatment directive aims at extending the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation into areas not yet covered, among others the areas of social protection, social advantages, education, and access to and supply of goods and services. it would thus align the protection to that provided on the grounds of race. directives prohibiting discrimination on grounds of sex do not cover social protection, social advantages and education, as you know. i trust the proposal will be adopted soon by the council. we have also achieved progress in the discussions on the proposed directive for a european accessibility act, both in council and in parliament. accessibility is a catalyst for the full and equal participation of people with disabilities in society. i would like in this context also to mention the intense work in relation to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and the forthcoming review of the european disability strategy. last but not least, in 2015 we proposed a full list of actions to advance on lgbti. let us not forget our european court of justice, that also plays an important role in clarifying the scope of european anti-discrimination law. for example, we are currently expecting important rulings on two pending cases relating to dismissals of female workers wearing islamic headscarves in private firms. lastly, i want to stress that inclusive labour markets can only be achieved through a partnership approach involving all stakeholders. public authorities can help people gain skills to get jobs and contribute to growth. companies can commit to diversity and, as a result of diversity, benefit from enhanced productivity, innovation and performance. trade unions, ngos and academia can contribute valuable insights and help in spreading best practices on diversity and non-discrimination. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. other and i begin by thanking the rapporteur for the good work she has done in this directive, because its implementation extends the protection against discrimination provided under european union law by listing a general framework by which discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, where employment or occupation is concerned can be combated. this was done with the aim of bringing the principle of equal treatment into effect in the member countries without undermining the role of the member countries in this process. we must ensure that the member countries which unfortunately are not represented here by the council even this morning can share their experiences and practices, so as to build on the experience already gained by the institutions, so as to have a more tolerant world around us and to reduce this discrimination as much as possible. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. of course, mr president, i said in my speech that we should reduce discrimination as much as possible. of course, we are not perfect yet, there is still a long way to go, there are several countries that have different types of discrimination and we want to see how we can all share our experiences, as i said, so that as much as possible we can try to eliminate discrimination once and for all from our workplaces, thank you.
and i would also like to thank marian harkin for this report which deals with a very important subject. the discussion we had yesterday, for example, on the difficult situation facing the company caterpillar in belgium is a good example of where the egf can be effective. of course, there is room for experimentation. of course the problem we have. . of . of (the president interrupts the speaker because of a lack of interpretation) . of . of i was talking about the discussion we had yesterday on the caterpillar company in belgium which is a good example of where the egf can be used. of course we must be more effective, we must be more rapid because it is not right that workers should be allowed to wait so that they can perhaps re-enter the world of work through this fund and have to wait for a long time. however, progress has been made in this fund. today we are instead urging the member countries to make the most of this fund which can help a lot in that difficult situation that the worker is going through.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is directed at establishing a specific european travel document for the return of third country nationals subject to a return decision, and the increased use of that document for the purpose of readmission. the aim is to create uniformity by harmonising the technical features of this specific european document, thus facilitating its recognition by third countries for the purpose of return and readmission, and cutting down the waiting time in administrative detention for returnees awaiting removal.
in writing. – i agree with the rapporteur that the eu cannot continue to be content with its current return rate amongst failed categories of asylum seekers. the existing standard eu travel document requires significant overhaul in its format and its implementation in order to increase its recognition by third countries and be effective. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce bureaucracy, variation, costs, and waiting periods, and hopefully will increase recognition of the document by third countries. this is essential in facilitating the readmission of a third-country national staying irregularly on the territory of the union – provided that the private life, liberty and property of the returnee are not endangered and that data protection safeguards as set by our standards are respected.
in writing. ‒ europe’s migration policy must be inclusive of a number of elements. relocation and resettlement are part of the strategy. however, return is also a very important element. migrants whose application for asylum has been refused and others who no longer qualify for such protection must be returned to their country of origin in a humane way. it is only through such a process that we can have a functional eu asylum policy. as things stand today, the eu system to return irregular migrants is not effective. as a shadow rapporteur, i voted in favour of this report as i believe that this document is another step forward in order to ensure an effective eu asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is imperative that the union has an asylum system able to return effectively those applicants who do not qualify for protection. this must be done in a way that respects their rights, while ensuring that the appropriate resources are directed towards those who do qualify for asylum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to establish a dedicated european travel document for the return of third-country nationals subject to a return decision. this regulation aims to provide for a uniform format and enhanced technical and security features to ensure a wider acceptance by third countries and the increase use of such document for readmissions. the returns should be carried out in a humane manner, ensuring the safe return and the safety of the returnees, and such returns must be carried out with full respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with rule 61(2) of the rules of procedure, the vote on the draft legislative resolution has been postponed and the report has been referred back to the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. – it is important that the regulatory environment at union level ensures that companies have enough options to raise capital. therefore, in the spirit of the capital markets union and in order to unlock investment, it would be good to have a regulatory initiative to regulate and harmonise crowdfunding practices across the union. as legislators we should refrain from imposing at national level other disclosure requirements which could constitute a disproportionate or unnecessary burden in relation to such offers and thus increase fragmentation of the internal market. the varying sizes of financial markets across the union should be taken in account. it is appropriate to give member states the option of exempting offers of securities to the public in case of certain thresholds. in this sense i agree with the rapporteur that member states should be free to set out in their national law a threshold, within the established parameters, from which the exemption should apply, taking into account the level of domestic investor protection they deem to be appropriate. on the other hand, harmonisation of the information contained in the prospectus should provide equivalent investor protection at union level in order to enable investors to make an informed investment decision.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as i believe that prospectuses published when companies want to raise capital either by listing shares or by offering investment opportunities to the general public must contain the necessary information for investors to make an informed investment decision. i believe that a summary of the prospectus would make it easier and less expensive for companies to ensure that retail investors have access to appropriate information so that they can make an informed decision. i agree that this prospectus should be a short document written in a concise manner and easily comparable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution as it furthers the union’s drive to complete the capital markets union – ensuring proper protection for investors by removing asymmetries of information between them and issuers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation, which aims to reduce one of the principal regulatory hurdles that issuers face when offering their equity and debt securities to retail and wholesale investors, and also to provide all types of issuers with disclosure rules tailored to their specific needs. at the same time, the proposal aims to make the prospectus a more relevant tool for informing potential investors, especially in a cross-border context. the regulation also simplifies the lives of smes by allowing them to use a standard document – that is easy for anyone to fill in without the help of banks or lawyers – to sell their securities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to respond to the need for further measures on the resettlement of refugees from turkey within the framework of existing commitments under eu-turkey cooperation in the field of migration.
in writing. – this proposal seeks to tackle situations involving a sudden inflow of persons in the mediterranean countries, a situation which we have witnessed on a number of occasions. parliament has repeatedly called for the development of a greater number of safer and lawful routes for asylum seekers and refugees into the union, as well as a binding and mandatory union legislative approach to resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and more extensive use of humanitarian visas – and i continue to support that call through this report. we should give due consideration to measures concerning family reunification, to be adopted in conformity with the obligation to protect the family and respect family life, which is enshrined in many instruments of international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the need for relocation to alleviate the pressure on frontline member states. i strongly believe that member states need to show more solidarity between them and create a truly european functional asylum system. i agree that member states need to significantly increase their efforts to address the urgent humanitarian situation in greece and prevent the deterioration of the situation of the frontline member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which urges member states to implement the relocation mechanism properly and show solidarity with italy and greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on asylum and its provisional measure in favour of italy and greece because it is essential to show more solidarity among the member states and to create a truly european asylum system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european parliament’s suggestions provide added value to the member states’ current employment policies in order to help address the many challenges we are facing in this area. the economic recovery in the union is still very fragile and employment rates although improving are still low. substantial disparities exist between regions and member states. this is still a matter of urgency. europe has a number of tools at its disposal to achieve this, the europe 2020 strategy essentially, and the implementation of the investment plan for europe (efsi). on both counts we need to look carefully at improving its implementation and monitoring in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is encouraging to note that three new employment indicators have been added to the main scoreboard.
in writing. – i support the development of holistic policies, as well as public investment, to address unemployment and poverty, to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market, and to secure a high level of employment. we need to ensure decent working conditions across the union, including adequate wages; and to guarantee adequate social protection in accordance with labour regulations and collective bargaining and in line with the principle of subsidiarity, as well as a high level of education and training; and we need to combat discrimination on the basis of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. we should push member states to take action in key areas to ease the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. through better access to the labour market we can facilitate entrepreneurship and sustainable job creation in all sectors, including green employment, as well as the provision of social care. more importance should be given to innovation. we need to invest further in skills and make the best use of people’s skills, so as to foster lifelong development and encourage employee-driven innovation.
in writing. ‒ employment policies must reflect the current realities and tackle the current challenges by taking into consideration the europe 2020 targets. we need to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market which is able to address unemployment and induce sustainable employment. i believe that the european union needs to ensure decent working conditions and social protection. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european parliament contribution to the guidelines for employment policies of the member states is important.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this legislative resolution as it enshrines the need for member states across the union to tackle the problem of unemployment by increasing the demand for labour with measures that include support for smes and greater involvement of actors from civil society.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on the commission to alter its proposal accordingly and on the council to take the amended guidelines into account in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market able to address the severe impact of unemployment, secure a high level of employment, and ensure decent working conditions including national minimum basic income schemes and social protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants is not a threat to the survival of species in the wild. we have a moral responsibility to do our utmost to save threatened species from extinction, especially when the eu is found to be a significant transit route and destination market for illegal wildlife trade in species listed in the cites agreement. i believe that the penalties for wildlife trafficking offences are not severe enough.
in writing. ‒ the cites convention is the largest international wildlife conservation agreement in existence and it aims to ensure that global trade does not affect the survival of species. wildlife trafficking is the fourth largest black market. the resolution includes aims to fight corruption and crime, measures for online illegal trade, effective sanctions and the adoption of new eu legislation on illegal animal/plant trade, increased consumer awareness and traceability. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this oral question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it welcomes the union’s accession to cites and stresses the need for the union to take further measures to curb illegal trade in animals and plants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for measures to combat the illegal wildlife trade taking place within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european union should continue with the roadmap for completing the single market for parcel delivery. postal services have undergone tremendous changes since the full opening-up of the sector to the market in 2008. due to the growth of e-commerce, the business-to-consumer segment of the parcel and packet markets has grown rapidly whereas competition in the letter market has been slow to develop, despite full opening to the market across the eu. i believe that affordable and reliable postal and parcel deliveries remain essential for the single market. whilst new technologies make shopping online more convenient, and parcel and express revenues now account for more than half of the postal sector’s total revenue, e—retailers’ use of cross-border e—commerce still remains low.
in writing. – i believe that this directive is essential to accelerate the pace of development and enable smes to thrive online and take full advantage of the benefits of the single digital market. there are also beneficial spill-overs in relation to ensuring the continuation and future growth of services. the universal service obligation (uso) in the postal sector is applied very differently across member states, reflecting the fact that member states have a certain flexibility in terms of providing universal service according to their domestic circumstances, including at local level. postal services should be monitored closely in terms of providers’ legacy costs, in accordance with the main set of rules for the control of state aid in respect of services of general economic interest. i agree with the report which endeavours to promote cost reduction by improving the interoperability of parcel dispatch and collection processes, and to develop european standards for integrated tracking systems. i acknowledge the progress made by the industry in serving consumers and smes across borders by enhancing interoperability, but more work needs to be done.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it takes into consideration the market changes in different member states and seeks to foster economic growth and social cohesion. i agree that member states should ensure good working conditions for all employees in the postal services sector and that we need improved transparency with regard to public pricing conditions and service performance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of the postal services directive following the opening up of the market, as it stresses the need to assess the impact on those employed in the sector and also to promote competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for improved transparency as regards public pricing conditions and service performance (delivery options, final delivery and reliability), especially when it comes to e—commerce.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe in the importance of finding ways to incentivise smes and support them, especially by facilitating their access to finance. access to finance was made worse by the crisis. the capital markets union (cmu) initiative made one of its priorities the diversification of funding options for smes in order to offer other options beyond bank lending. the report encourages smes to consider the potential of the single market for their financing needs. it also underlines the importance of the implementation of the small business act.
in writing. – we should ensure proportionality as regards the early repayment of loans across the eu, with measures such as a cap to limit costs for smes and more transparency in contracts for smes. there are country-specific factors, including structural factors such as the legal framework and cultural issues, which influence financing needs and the availability of funding options, and these have a direct impact on their operability. i agree with the report on the importance of transparent, standardised financing information for banks, investors, supervisors and other stakeholders, so that risk profiles can be understood and informed decisions taken, and to reduce financing costs. the creation of a european database, collecting information on business strategies and the financing needs of smes, in which they could voluntarily enter their data and which would keep them up to date, could be a step in the right direction. furthermore, by simplifying rules on support for start-ups, micro enterprises and smes, and by improving the eu business environment, we can further assist the contribution made by smes to a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the main measures necessary to improve access to finance for smes and also increase the diversity of sme funding. i strongly agree that smes need diverse and improved public and private funding which does not stop at start-up phase but also assists them throughout their lifecycle. i also agree that the commission needs to assess the review of the late payment directive, with the introduction of specific measures aimed at easing payments for smes. this report calls for measures to defend public and private investments, alternative financing tools and also special attention to smes run by women and minorities. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the importance of smes to the union’s economy and the various opportunities that are open to smes through the capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for measures to protect public and private investments, for alternative financing tools and for special attention to smes run by women and minorities.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a significant reference to the fact that european smes and micro-enterprises currently rely in very large part on bank lending to finance their ongoing and investment initiatives. opening access for them to new ways of funding projects is vitally important. however, it has to be kept in mind that such enterprises have limited time, experience and resources to get to know about these options and feel confident in following them. rightly then, the report also emphasises the role of young entrepreneurs. it is they who will be more amenable to seeking out and trying non-traditional ways of mobilising financial support. promotional and educational programmes specifically targeting young entrepreneurs, when launching new financial tools for smes, should have greater traction than with other sectors. that will have carry-forward effects since, as new generations come on stream, financing decisions will increasingly be tilted away from exclusive reliance on banks and toward other avenues. by preparing the ground for such a strategy, the report provides further impetus to the diversification of financing methods which are available not just to smes and micro-enterprises but also more widely. for this reason too i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it studies ways on how best to harness the job potential of smes both at eu and national level. i consider this to be a very important topic as, in my view, working at making smes stronger means guaranteeing present and future jobs in the eu. smes are the strength of the european economy. when they can thrive in the free market, they build sustainable jobs, growth and prosperity. it is important to seek new ways to stimulate interest in entrepreneurship and cultivate a more entrepreneurial mind-set, especially among young people. to do this, we must ensure that they have access to funds, and the knowledge of how the eu can help them. we need to recognise the importance of thinking small first.
in writing. – member states need to provide appropriate training and ensure an ongoing professional development of teachers to promote up-to-date teaching methods and the development of 21st century skills and competences. also, we need to overcome the gender gap in the labour market with regard to employment and pay, amongst other issues, by providing carers’ leave, flexible working hours for carers, and ensuring equal pay for equal work between male and female workers. smes play an important role in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth. there are still significant differences across the eu in terms of regulatory frameworks for smes, in particular regarding the certainty of future regulatory developments and the legal quality of regulation in general. the fact remains that the highest labour costs have been identified in over-regulated and bureaucratised systems. the report cautions against this. job creation also entails a better engagement with member states and local as well as regional authorities, education and training facilities, civil society associations, businesses, trade unions and financial institutions with a view to promoting and making full use of eu funding sources to help overcome the difficulties in accessing information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that smes are the backbone of the european economy, which is why i am in favour of fair competition, access to financing and an adequate regulatory environment. this report also urges member states to develop forms of cooperation that involve all governance levels, businesses, trade union, educational institutions and other stakeholders with a view to adapting their education and training systems to address the disparity between skills and qualifications. i support this measure and believe that more informal training, including on-the-job training, is needed and that member states should implement the ‘think small first’ principle.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it makes numerous proposals to make the most of and also support the union’s small and medium enterprises. the resolution focuses on tackling the skill-gap in certain sectors and the need for smes to be given the same level of tax support and access to public procurement processes as larger companies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because smes are the backbone of the european economy. hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow for smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the general elements set out in this report and i therefore voted in favour. the adoption of the employment equality directive (efd) extended the protection against discrimination provided under eu law by laying down a general framework for combating discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation with regard to employment and occupation. this was done with a view to putting into effect in the member states the principle of equal treatment without undermining the role of the member states in this process. despite huge steps in the right direction, many are still unaware of their rights. employers need to create an anti-discriminatory working environment as without their active involvement in this process it will be very hard to achieve.
in writing. – measures, such as the directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of companies listed on stock exchanges and related measures, have already been adopted by parliament. they have the potential to help bring about greater equality for women within the field of employment and improve women’s access to management positions. but legislation should be considered as a crucial tool in reaching gender equality. as advocated by the report, this should be combined with normative procedures and campaigns in order to implement gender equality, not only in legislation but also in public opinion.
in writing. ‒ employment equality is crucially important, we need to ensure that our citizens are equally treated in the job market. i am in favour of this report as it outlines and seeks to address the main issues in this regard – that is equality of data, discrimination reporting, awareness, the role of civil society and the social partners and access to justice, amongst others.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it deals with the challenges to the implementation of the employment equality directive. the resolution calls on member states to commit to the principles of equality and tackle any forms of discrimination whether religious, sexual, gender, race or age; therefore i voted in favour as the union needs to promote its values on its own soil.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on social partners (trade unions and employers) and civil society, including equality bodies to be involved in the effective application of equality in employment and occupation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there exist a lot of potential for member states to make use of this fund. in order to achieve this, additional information could be stepped up by the commission informing member states on the possibilities offered by the egf. the report underscores amongst others that the egf cannot act as a substitute to a true industrial policy at eu level to bring sustainable and inclusive growth. it also calls on the commission to include in its mid-term evaluation a specific assessment of the fund’s support to young persons not in employment, education or training (neets), especially in view of the youth guarantee and the synergies between national budgets, the european social fund and the youth employment initiative. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i see scope for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing redundant workers for a new job and supporting them. it also provides a means of addressing emergencies by providing rapid intervention and short-term assistance in response to acute and unforeseen labour market difficulties involving large-scale redundancies. that makes it different from the european social fund (esf), which also provides support for redundant workers but is intended to address long-term structural imbalances mainly through life-long learning.
in writing. ‒ this fund provides support to those employees who have lost their jobs due to changes in international trade patterns. i am in favour of this report as i believe that europe needs to keep on fighting for a europe that ensures improvement of living, social and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the ways in which the european globalisation adjustment fund was used and improved between 2007 and 2014. i fully supported this fund as it is essential that the union does its utmost to alleviate the situation of workers who have been made redundant due to global market forces, and to get them back into the workforce.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 because the egf is a european instrument providing direct support to workers who have lost their job as a consequence of changes in trade patterns and globalisation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, this is an important report because it addresses the relationship between the acp countries and the european union and recognises the fact that cooperation between the acp countries and the union is a valid and important achievement, and has been strengthened over the years. economic partnership agreements - epas - are a development tool to increase trade between the two blocks. the epas have served well to help acp countries accelerate the development of their economies and enter the global market. it is important that epas are used to address new challenges, such as the environment, climate change, terrorism, and migration. much remains to be done to address greater development in acp countries. to do so requires strengthening political dialogue and moving towards a single framework of regional agreements tailored to the particular needs of that region. it is not a case of every measure is good for everyone, because each region has its own needs and challenges. only in this way can we address the common challenges and needs of acp countries and europe. the report is addressed to the rapporteur, mr norber neuser.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement. this will trigger the entry into force of the first-ever universal, legally-binding global climate deal. i am proud to say that without europe’s strong position on climate, the paris agreement would never have happened. the eu has been leading international actions to fight climate change and has worked hard to make the paris agreement a success. this is a step in the right direction to hand over to future generations a healthier and cleaner world.
in writing. ‒ it is extremely positive that the european union will be ratifying the paris agreement. the implementation of the paris agreement will make a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change. the council needs to take all necessary steps to finalise its position on the paris agreement ratification, as do the member states, as soon as possible, so as to finalise the eu ratification process and deposit the instruments of ratification with the un before the end of 2016. that is why i and the european parliament are calling on the council to take the final steps towards ratification and implementation.
in writing. ‒ i was proud to vote in favour of this resolution giving parliament’s consent to the paris agreement. as the eu is one of the principal actors in the fight against climate change, it is essential that it continues to play a leading role in addressing global warming.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change. the agreement was reached last year in the un climate conference in paris. there is no time to waste, or the human, economic and environmental consequences will become unbearable. by protecting our planet, we will also be setting the path for a smart and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur on the need for a swift approval of the commission proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund as a sign of solidarity with the affected greek regions and to grant financial assistance relating to the disaster in greece (earthquakes affecting the ionian islands region, in particular the island of lefkada, northern parts of ithaki and kefalonia) which occurred on 17 november 2015. the proposed mobilisation would not require an amendment to the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this financial assistance towards rehabilitating victims of the disaster which took place at the ionian islands region of greece last year, providing for an anticipated fund contribution, in line with article 4(a) of the eusf regulation, and a total amount of aid proposed of just over eur 1.5 million.
in writing. ‒ the commission decided to grant eur 1.65 million from the eu solidarity fund to greece following the earthquake in the ionian islands in november 2015. this disaster severely impacted on roads, ports, public buildings, homes, cultural sites and tourist areas. the aid will help to restore infrastructure, reimburse the cost of emergency measures and cover some of the clean-up operations, in a gesture of solidarity with the greek regions affected. for these reasons, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of using funds to deal with damage caused by the 17 november 2015 earthquake that affected the ionian islands. the region requires all the support possible to repair the extensive damage to infrastructure, cultural locations and sites vital to the islands.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report to provide assistance to greece in order to repair damage caused by an earthquake that hit the ionian islands region, and in particular lefkada, northern parts of ithaki and kefalonia, on 17 november 2015. the earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale. two people lost their lives, eight were wounded, and 120 houses were damaged. the greek authorities reported extensive damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites, with some of the most important tourist beaches destroyed on lefkada. the aid will help restore infrastructure, reimburse the cost of emergency measures and cover some of the clean-up operations. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in microsoft and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in computer programming, consultancy and related activities. the finnish authorities state the workforce reductions are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation by recalling that the eu share in the ict sector employment has decreased, while the share of china and the united states has increased.
in writing. ‒ the ict sector plays a key role in the finnish economy with it having the highest employment percentage in ict amongst all member states. the redundancies in microsoft are linked with the trend that has affected the entire finnish electronics industry since the decline of nokia and for which four previous applications have been presented. those made redundant have highly varying competencies, 89 % of them are between 30 and 54 years of age. i support this assistance since it will help these people through targeted vocational labour training and provide start-up grants.
in writing. ‒ the main reason for workforce reductions at microsoft is the declining market share of phones (lumia) that use microsoft windows operating system. i am in favour of these redundant workers benefitting from the european globalisation adjustment fund, as its main purpose is to serve as a flexible instrument in the eu budget to provide support, under specific conditions, to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies caused by major changes in global trade.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the european union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 1 441 people.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which proposes to give finland eur 5 364 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 1 441 former workers at microsoft and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers to find new jobs. the main reason for the job losses at microsoft is the declining market share of its phones (lumia) that use the microsoft windows operating system. most of the microsoft redundancies were in the helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and länsi-suomi regions. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of sweden, to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson operating in the manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products trailers mainly in the regions of stockholm. although ericsson is still hiring in europe, this is only people with an entirely different set of skills than in hardware production and development. most of the company’s growth is in software development and is also mostly happening in asia(6), where ericsson is expanding its activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) towards redundancies in a stockholm region where 918 out of 1 556 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution are expected to participate in the measures indicated in the report. since the request in is in line with article 4(1) of the egf regulation, i support this aid directed to the families of these workers who fell victims of such redundancies. i welcome the special emphasis that will be placed on participants aged 50 and above, when providing motivational coaching and career planning. the employability of all workers by means of adapted training and the recognition of skills and competences is of vital importance for their future active participation in society.
in writing. ‒ redundant ericsson workers will benefit through a eur 3 957 918 contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the fund’s main aim is to provide financial support for workers who are suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i agree that the redundant workers should receive this support.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the european union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 918 people.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which proposes a contribution for sweden amounts to eur 3 957 918, in order to help find new jobs for 918 workers made redundant by ericsson in a climate of stagnating growth and increasingly tough competition from asian producers. these redundancies were due to the partial or complete closure of wireless telecom hardware production lines at various ericsson sites (borås, karlskrona, kista/stockholm, kumla, linköping and gothenburg) in sweden, and the closure of an entire plant in the city of katrineholm. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. ‒ rules on waiver of immunity need to be applied consistently and with clarity. although it is regretful that the waiver of immunity is being requested some 20 years after the events have occurred and the greek justice system was not able to bring proceedings against giorgos grammatikakis during this period and intends to do so now while he is a member of the european parliament, the circumstances for waiver do fulfil the established criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as in this way he will be better able to prove his innocence or otherwise.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of the immunity of mep giorgos grammatikakis since he asked to proceed himself in order to put an end to the long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text which works at ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the proposal focuses on the right to provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of liberty, and the right to provisional legal aid and to legal aid for requested persons who are subject to european arrest warrant proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal to help those not having sufficient means themselves to pay for legal assistance, where the interests of justice so require. proper legal assistance will facilitate further the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and enhance police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in matters with a cross-border dimension. accreditation for legal aid lawyers as well as continuous professional training will continue to sustain the competence of legal aid lawyers. children are particularly vulnerable when involved in criminal matters and require particular attention through the implementation of special measures that provide for procedural safeguards. consequently i support this report.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a new reality that requires an effective political system in place to really and truly safeguard our citizens. the european union is also based on the rule of law, which includes a collection of procedural, fundamental and defence rights guaranteed to those who are accused or suspected of criminal actions. i am in favour of this agreement as it would lay down common minimum rules on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and also for those persons who are the subject of a european arrest warrant. i believe that criminal law is a key component in creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this legislative resolution as it seeks to enhance citizens’ rights particularly by strengthening the procedural rights of suspected and accused persons in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which lays down common minimum rules on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings, and for those persons who are the subject of a european arrest warrant, with the aim of strengthening mutual trust and, thus, mutual recognition in criminal matters. the directive will complete the current procedural rights package, which was and is a key component in creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which proposes to control the export of goods which are used for the death penalty and torture. it is essential to ensure coherence of the eu’s export controls including military, dual use, firearms and torture goods lists, without subjecting items to duplicate controls (with the exception of complementary controls preventing illicit drug trafficking) to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of torture goods and effectively control items with potential lethal and inhumane uses. i agree with the approach of necessary and proportionate controls without superfluous burdens restricting trade which has legitimate end-use purposes.
in writing. ‒ we need an appropriate set of measures ensuring that medicinal products are not used for capital punishment, for torture or for other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is important that member states give due consideration to this report and ensure that relevant information is provided to their customs administration and other relevant national authorities tasked with upholding the provisions of the law. i favour the introduction of a targeted end-use clause in order for member states to suspend or halt the transfer of security-related items not listed in annexes ii and iii that clearly have no practical use other than for the purposes of capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment. additional safeguards against the risks which are already in place should be monitored, abided with and enforced in the spirit of a community coherent approach, ensuring unity within the union on such a sensitive matter.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment, torture and any other treatment or punishment should be banned in all countries. the european union must be on the forefront to eradicate torture. i voted in favour of this report as it will help eu authorities to react more quickly to new emerging trends. the revision of this regulation aims to contribute to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which aims at creating a legally binding agreement that prohibits the exportation of medical products that may be used for capital punishment, torture or any other inhuman punishment. it is essential that the union upholds its stance against capital punishment around the world and lives up to its own values of protecting life.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims to contribute to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injection. this is a much welcomed example of the eu setting a global standard in eradicating torture. the updated rules will help eu authorities to react more quickly to new emerging trends in torture and inhumane treatment, namely by regulating their sale on line etc. in recent years we have seen how a change in eu practices has led to the demise of the death penalty in many partner countries such as the us. this will be set to continue when the regulation comes into force.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china, since it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation. the agreement involves the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information and does not contain provisions on personal data.
in writing. ‒ i support the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. such a strategic agreement, as clearly stated in this report, excludes the exchange of personal data. there is scope for having criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. this will help us reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ according to europol, china is increasingly relevant as a source-, destination- and transit-country in the fight against organised crime. i believe that the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of furthering cooperation between europol and their counterparts in china, as cooperation and the exchange of information is essential for citizens’ well-being. it is important to note that this agreement excludes the exchange of personal information, therefore addressing concerns about privacy and data protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china since it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation. such strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to contribute to the debate on the future of the eu-acp partnership beyond 2020, when the cotonou agreement will expire. it defines the european parliament’s priorities, which include maintaining the legally binding provisions of the cotonou agreement based on three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. it proposes, though, a number of changes in order to make the partnership even more effective and adapt to the political, structural and demographic changes of recent years.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the parties to strengthen their efforts to build capacity in the acp countries and to harness and make good use of domestic resources by, in particular, strengthening tax systems, ensuring sound management of natural resources and fostering industrialisation and the processing of raw materials for local, regional and world markets. equally important is the call for the eu and the acp partners to step up cooperation on combating money laundering and tax evasion. in parallel we should also seek how to enhance visibility and increase transparency in the use of eu development funds. this would facilitate these countries’ integration into the world economy. meanwhile, financial aid has to be intertwined with concrete cooperative projects directed at improving infrastructure and educational and social systems in the acp countries.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the eu and the acp group is the largest existing north-south partnership which dates back to 1975. the successive lomé conventions (1975–2000) and the cotonou agreement (2000–2020) have provided the legal basis for this partnership. the cotonou partnership agreement signed in 2000 will expire in 2020. i am in favour of this report as i believe that in a changing global context a new relationship agreement is needed to maintain and promote an effective and close cooperation between the eu and the acp countries.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the report on future cooperation between the union and african, caribbean and pacific group of states. the report focuses on measures that can improve upon the existing cotonou agreement, it also explicitly calls for the end of the donor-recipient mentality and stresses that the new agreement must be a political project.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the future of relations between african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the eu beyond 2020, which is the parliament’s contribution to the follow-up of the international cotonou agreement that was launched in 2000 and is due to expire in 2020. the economic partnership agreements (epas) are used as developing instruments to boost intra-african trade, which immensely helps those countries, speeds up their economies and integrates them into the global economy, but they could also be used as an instrument to address new challenges, such as environment, climate change, terrorism, and migration. acp countries have further room for development and improvement, but to do that we need to strengthen the political dialogue and advance towards a new unique framework with regional agreements that are tailored to specific regional needs and to the mutual interests existing between the eu and the respective region.
mr president, commissioner, the previous proposal of the commission to restrict roaming to only 90 days a year was absolutely unacceptable. we promised citizens a total ban on roaming, not 90 days of credit. there should be no limit in terms of timing or volume. therefore, i welcome the commission’s new approach to fair use of free roaming, which does not impose any maximum restrictions. however, i still have some serious concerns, especially when it comes to consumer protection. first, rules should not be based on the assumption that the ‘roam like home’ principle will be abused by operators and bona fide consumers. it is normal that once the roaming charges are removed, people will use this service more. consumers should not be penalised simply because they use a service that was previously too expensive or because no travel occurred in the last 12 months, as the commission seems to imply. second, the commission needs to clarify how, when and what will trigger the fair clause. how will consumers be protected from abusive contractual clauses and subjective assessments added to the non-exhaustive lists of criteria that the telecom companies will use to identify abusive behaviour? third, the unfair definitions on matters such as periodical travelling, abusive use or anomalous use could lead to different practices among member states. how will the commission ensure the application of a more harmonised fair use policy which does not confuse consumers across borders and, more importantly, does not disappoint them? fourth, the stable link requirements must be simple and sensible without imposing unnecessary administrative burdens on the consumer. last, but not least, we also need strong data protection and consumer privacy safeguards and proper complaint mechanisms. consumers must be given enough time and access to easy, efficient and transparent complaint procedures before they are penalised. consumers expect what was promised to them. let’s not let them down.
mr president, we need a well-functioning prosecutor's office that can give an adequate response to the enormous amount of fraud we are seeing in the european union. our citizens need and want to see this become a reality. every year, almost half a billion euros are lost. these are not small figures. and so we are calling on the council to provide us with a set of clear and unambiguous competences for this office. at the same time, we want to ensure that the relations between eurojust and olaf are clarified so that we can see the clear differences between the different roles of these organisations in the protection of the financial interests of the european union. furthermore, we insist that the prosecutor's office should have sufficient investigative measures to be able to carry out its own roles for these investigations. finally, we must give this office the appropriate tools to do its job. however, i know that there are still things we have to be sure of, for example issues concerning the sovereignty and competence of the member states. it is clear, in my view, that the national authorities and the prosecutor's office should have a number of complementary or shared competences on particular offences.
thank you, commission vice-president, once again on the council's agenda we have immigration. we will again be talking about immigration, another occasion where the european union has the opportunity to show that it is not cut off from its citizens. and i say this at a time and in circumstances where the biggest problem for the european union every day is that it is being cut off from the realities felt by citizens in the member states and the realities faced by the whole european union and all the member states as a whole. if we talk about security, there are serious shortcomings in the way the external borders of the european union are being managed. do we want european citizens to feel close to the european union? so, instead of going round in circles, without taking the decisions that should be taken, european leaders need to tackle the most urgent issues, among them, yes, immigration and human trafficking. the european union, more than ever, must send a clear and strong message that trafficking in human beings is a most serious crime and must be punished in the same way. otherwise, it will still be convenient for you to take advantage of the most vulnerable. in these critical times for the european union we need leaders who will lead the european union because they have clear and strong values. it certainly helps if there is, yes a collective effort, where the resources available to the member states are used in the best way and duplication is avoided. after all, together, we are stronger than individually.
in writing. – one accepts that the eu should not, either on its own or through informal contacts with the uk, start to review options for the brexit negotiations before these commence. the same need not apply for the eu’s internal arrangements once brexit has been consummated. this is especially relevant with regard to the financial implications for the union of being without the uk. media houses and research bureaus have made their calculations. the union’s income will suffer a sizeable shortfall with the disappearance of the uk’s net contribution. what will the implications of this be for ongoing and future eu projects? what will be the dimensions of the shortfall, seen from a purely accounting perspective? and from an operational one? how can this deficit be countered? these questions in no way prejudice the conduct of future brexit negotiations. they relate to the available options for internal reorganisation of the eu post-brexit. misinformation about this may be contributing to ongoing uncertainties as much as the wait for brexit negotiations to start. deep background provided publicly as of now by the commission and/or council about the scale of the challenges and problems in this regard would help dampen such uncertainties.
in writing. ‒ i approved the proposal without amendment, in order to ensure that eu-wide protection is afforded to children with links to the peruvian community, who will thus be safeguarded against abduction. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level, by establishing that the competent courts and applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of children who have been abducted. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field and the member states therefore no longer act on their own account.
in writing. ‒ this is an important instrument which has been ratified by all the eu member states, providing protection for the interest of those children who are victims of abduction. the convention introduces a system of cooperation, aimed at settling cases of international child abduction, between contracting states which are often at loggerheads declaring themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. an important development introduced by the convention is a system which ensures the immediate return of children who have been abducted. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the two member states which have not yet accepted the accession of peru – austria and romania – to accept that accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the entire european union.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the accession of peru as the main scope is protecting children which find themselves in legal uncertainty. the hague convention is an important international instrument of cooperation which enables signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. it is a fundamental tool that clarifies the applicable national law in cases where there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution as it seeks to provide safeguards to children against abduction.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims at giving austria and romania the authorisation to accept the accession of peru to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between peru and the entire eu. all the other eu member states have given their approval to peru to accede. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights on the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is to be welcomed. following an evaluation of the functioning of kazakhstan's justice system and the country's willingness to implement the convention, the green light was given for the convention to enter into force between the european union and kazakhstan. i therefore followed the rapporteur´s indication that parliament should approve the proposal, in order to ensure that eu-wide protection is afforded to settling cases of international child abduction in these particular cases.
in writing. ‒ this is an important instrument which has been ratified by all the eu member states, providing protection for the interest of those children who are victims of abduction. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states for cases where jurisdictions declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the convention also introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of children who have been abducted. following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the member states, with some exceptions, to accept that accession. this will allow the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the entire european union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention is an important international instrument of cooperation which enables signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. i am in favour of the accession of kazakhstan the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of accepting kazakhstan’s accession to the hague convention as it furthers the protection that the union can provide to children.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims at giving member states (except denmark to which this is not applicable; and the netherlands which have already accepted it), the authorisation to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the entire eu. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights on the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is therefore necessary to authorise the member states, with some exceptions, to accept the accession of south korea. this will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the entire european union. following the positive results of the evaluation of the functioning of south korea's justice system and the country's willingness to implement the convention, i followed the rapporteur´s indication that parliament should approve the proposal, in order to ensure that eu-wide protection is afforded to settling cases of international child abduction in these particular cases.
in writing. ‒ this is an important instrument which has been ratified by all the eu member states, providing protection for the interest of those children who are victims of abduction. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction addressing the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. an important development introduced by the convention is a system which ensures the immediate return of children who have been abducted. following the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is necessary to authorise the member states, with some exceptions, to accept the accession of south korea. i support this since it will allow the convention to enter into force between south korea and the entire european union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention is an important international instrument of cooperation which enables signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. considering the importance of this convention, i am in favour of the accession of korea as the main scope is protecting children which find themselves in legal uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of accepting korea’s accession to the hague convention as it furthers the protection that the union can provide to children.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which aims at giving member states (except denmark to which this is not applicable; and the czech republic, ireland and lithuanian which have already accepted it), the authorisation to accept the accession of south korea to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between south korea and the entire eu. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross border cases regarding child custody and abduction. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights on the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified.
in writing. ‒ i believe and support the idea that eradicating hunger and malnutrition should be a long-term commitment of the eu. the eu needs to be ambitious in achieving sustainable development. however although progress has been made over the past years, it remains too slow and a significant number of people in the world still lack proper access to food and are malnourished. the resolution aims at taking stock of the progress made and the challenges that remain ahead of the un high level summit on nutrition. although i agree on many of the points raised in this resolution i do not support all of them, therefore i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for local food production to be given priority in actions against under-nutrition, and stress the importance of supporting small farming initiatives and female farmers as food producers. at the same time i call on the eu to assist developing countries and smallholding farmers in the development of and access to local markets, local value chains and local food processing facilities, combined with trade policies that support such efforts, as part of its global nutrition strategy.
in writing. ‒ the universal declaration of human rights recognises the right to food as part of the right to an adequate standard of living. sdg2 aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030 by increasing productivity of smallholders and achieving sustainable agriculture for 8.5 billion people by 2030. the wha came up with 6 global nutrition targets for 2026. this report is calling for: financial investment, a reduction in food waste, nutrition strategies, public awareness and education on these problems, to support crop genetic diversity and combat land grabbing, prevent trade distortions in agriculture, humanitarian aid, social safety nets and data collection. i am voting in favour of this report so as to ensure that the commission addresses all forms of under nutrition and combat world hunger.
in writing. ‒ though i fully support the struggle to ensure food security and the need for development policy to be interlinked with trade, agriculture and energy policies i could not support the final version of the text as it would endanger jobs and growth that could form international investment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report that underlines the importance of the development of social safety nets. the commission has to ensure it addresses all forms of undernutrition while also filling the huge current funding gap for nutrition specific interventions. the commission has to fulfil its commitments. the implementation of sdg 2 fighting hunger and malnutrition is a priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which follows an oral question on the subject. i support the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thus strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the eppo should have sufficient investigative measures available to conduct its investigations and the commission should come up with estimations of the budgetary implications of the collegiate structure in order for parliament to take this information into account before taking its final decision.
in writing. ‒ eurojust has facilitated coordination and cooperation between national investigative and prosecution authorities in dealing with cases affecting a number of member states, and eurojust has helped to build mutual trust and to bridge the eu’s wide variety of legal systems and traditions. i support the work being done by eurojust and call on the council to clarify the prosecution competences of the eppo and the national prosecutors in cases of multiple offences and mixed offences. i emphasise the need for protection of the procedural rights of suspected and accused persons which should be guaranteed; in particular, the regulation should provide for additional rights of defence for eppo suspects, in particular the right to legal aid, the right to information and access to case materials.
in writing. ‒ the council is currently proposing the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) to which the parliament is being asked to consent. with the risks from fraud estimated at around €3 billion per annum, the commission is proposing a decentralised eu body with a hierarchical structure to safeguard and protect the rights of individuals involved in the eppo’s investigations. my main issue to this circle around the fact that vat offences are included, adequate juridical reviews are needed and procedural rights need to be taken into consideration. some of the changes to the commission’s proposal, as introduced by the council, present some real dangers to the independence, effectiveness and added value to the european public prosecutor’s office. as the resolution outlines these concerns, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which clearly outlines parliament’s support for the creation of an independent european public prosecutor’s office in order to further the fight against fraud in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. this is an important and timely resolution. a reaction was necessary in the face of such a significant amount of dismissals and the spillover effect that this brings with it, affecting subcontractors and related smes in the region. such major industrial restructuring announcements are a hard blow for affected employees, their families and the communities. the text calls for safeguards for dismissed workers, urgent measures for their reinsertion into the labour market, and respect for the legislation on the information and consultation of workers. furthermore the resolution is calling for a strong european long-term strategy on industrial policy. on the other hand, i voted against references in the text calling for increased convergence among member states in fiscal matters.
in writing. ‒ i see scope in the intention of the report to preserve and create jobs. this can only be done if member states set the right conditions for eu industry, which is faced with fierce global competition in which not all actors respect the same standards and rules. it is of concern that major industrial restructuring announcements strike a hard blow to the employees affecting their families and the communities in which companies are located. for such purposes we should foster reindustrialisation to take on the principle of urgency in seeking to address the continuing problems as quickly as possible. we need to reintegrate workers dismissed, for example from caterpillar gosselies and alstom and all their subcontractors, back into the labour market as soon as possible and to give them adequate support to acquire new skills where needed. this can be done if member states have national employment services to enhance cooperation at national and international level in order to improve information channels and better match job offers with demand. consequently i support the call upon the commission and the member states to boost ict and stem training and education in order to equip both the current and the future workforce with the relevant e-skills.
in writing. ‒ this motion for resolution calls for a policy to ‘reindustrialise’ the eu, in the wake of the closure of factory facilities and redundancy plans announced by caterpillar and alstom in belgium and france respectively. europe needs a forward-looking industrial strategy to improve operating conditions for companies and protect workers. the european industry is affected by the financial and legislative frameworks for companies, globalisation, and worldwide competition. fighting unemployment has always been one of my main priorities, and this is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this cross-party resolution as it expresses the need for an industrial policy that also protects those employed in these sectors. it also stresses that european industry should continue to be seen as a strategic asset and policies formed to make it resilient to future challenges.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for a strategy to reindustrialise europe following the brutal announcements on the closure of the caterpillar plant in belgium and the alstom site in france. it is essential to develop a real industrial policy for europe, with an investment strategy, a new competition policy and a trade policy to tackle social dumping. however, i have voted against the paragraphs calling on conversion of taxation because in my view, it is also important to recall that the eu is not a homogenous area and this needs to be borne in mind. not all regions in the eu face the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical proximity or resources. ultimately, regions which find themselves at a disadvantage are equally interested in safeguarding their tax revenues and keeping people-based economic activity in their territory. but to do so, they need latitude in tax policy, especially considering that the eu has a very sophisticated state aid policy which already materially limits what can be done in terms of measures.
in writing. ‒ reindustrialisation was supposed to have been a major plank of eu policy in past years. as an issue, it was only promoted sporadically, when major problems arose for major industrial players in major eu member states. meanwhile, most other member states experienced continuing shocks to their industrial systems. they suffered big losses in employment and industrial knowhow. deindustrialisation affected big and small companies alike. their worries and the need to promote a really effective reindustrialisation strategy were buried under the preoccupation with a competition policy that screens out all state aid; a strong commitment to free trade under the aegis of globalisation; and a belief that services by themselves would keep europe’s economies in competitive shape. reindustrialisation needs a policy designed for all seasons, not when major companies are about to collapse. it needs consistent and effective application. the european tradition is one which associates public policy with industrial endeavour. saying so is not a rejection of globalisation. rather it reflects the need for a european commitment to the planned development of globalisation which avoids social dumping through free trade. there is no other way by which to promote reindustrialisation and to make it applicable equally to big and small.
mr president, commissioner, it is indeed a pleasure for me to be addressing this plenary session here tonight because malta has just ratified the paris agreement and we know that the ratification of the paris agreement by the european union is a success. i have said it many times and i also thank the commissioner, miguel arias cañete, who is here with us for the determination shown even in negotiations which were not easy at many times. but tonight i would also like to look through the lens of a citizen of malta, a small island in the middle of the mediterranean, a region considered to be one of the most exposed to climate change. our citizens are already experiencing this change in their daily lives. this is confirmed by studies indicating that, among other things, rainfall could be reduced by more than half by 2100 and that the level of the mediterranean sea could continue to rise. so yes, there is an urgent need for concrete and immediate measures to implement what was agreed in paris. because if we do not act quickly, the issues of stability and security in the mediterranean will become more worrying and more urgent. the marrakesh conference is therefore coming at a time when we can change things and precisely in a region that so badly needs this change. we have this opportunity in front of us and we want to make sure that we continue to build on the momentum that already exists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that ifrs 9 – financial instruments constitutes one of the major responses of the iasb to the financial crisis. in order to be effective, i believe that the commission, together with the european supervisory agencies, the ecb, the european systemic risk board and the european financial reporting advisory group, should closely monitor the implementation of ifrs 9 in the eu, to prepare an ex—post impact assessment no later than june 2019 and to present this assessment to the european parliament and act in accordance with its views. i also call on the iasb to conduct a post-implementation review of ifrs 9 in order to identify and assess unintended effects of the standard, in particular on long-term investment.
in writing. ‒ following the financial crises, the eu is working towards ensuring greater transparency. this resolution highlights the remaining open issues on which the commission and the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) should make proposals, notably regarding the insurance sector and the impact on long-term investment. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that new accounting standards and long-term investment are needed for financial stability in the eu. through our vote, the parliament will be asking the commission to ensure proper impact assessment of the effect of the new rules laid down in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the importance of long-term investment for economic growth. it also calls on the commission to ensure that ifrs 9 measures do not limit the union’s long-term investment goals, whilst also continuing to discourage excessive risk taking.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which promotes accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth, and long-term investment. i also support a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the desperate human rights situation in syria. i strongly believe that, in the light of russia’s military intervention in the country, the eu needs to work out how to deal with russia. it is also very worrying to witness the links between the far-right parties in the ep and russia, which is not acting as an independent party in this conflict.
in writing. ‒ the situation in syria is deteriorating and civilians are being killed and injured daily, especially in aleppo. the ceasefire negotiated 2 weeks ago between the international syria support group, russia and united states seems to have collapsed. the us, the uk, france, germany and italy condemned the gross violations of international humanitarian law. today, the prospects for a new ceasefire seem very bleak, especially with the american presidential elections coming up. i am greatly concerned and outraged at the bombings of innocent civilians in aleppo and the disruption of humanitarian aid deliveries. if no new agreement is negotiated between the us and russia, the situation in syria will escalate into further violence, destruction and human suffering. i believe that an immediate cessation of hostilities is needed, and that is why i am completely in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution on the dire situation in syria, commending the union’s emergency response to the humanitarian crisis in aleppo. the resolution also calls for the members of the international syria support group to resume negotiations and reach a lasting truce that will facilitate a political solution to the war.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is essential to raise strong concern and outrage at the continuing indiscriminate bombings of civilians in aleppo and disruption of humanitarian aid deliveries. we must stress the necessity to save the cessation of hostilities as the last remaining hope to prevent another brutal escalation of the war.
in writing. ‒ i fully recognise the importance of the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh. this resolution aims to define parliament’s position in view of the upcoming cop22 climate conference which will be held in november 2016. it addresses a number of very positive issues, including the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy, but it also calls for the introduction of a financial transactions tax, which i cannot support. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support measures aimed to mitigate global warming and agree with the motion which states clearly that this should not be seen as an obstacle to striving for economic growth but should, on the contrary, be seen as a driving force in the realisation of new and sustainable economic growth and employment. i also welcomes the commitment of all countries to limit the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c; as much as i welcome therefore the preparation in 2018 of an ipcc special report for this purpose. by now it is clear that current efforts by countries are not enough to reach these safe limits for the most vulnerable countries. climate-related developments in parts of africa and the middle east could contribute to political instability, economic hardship and an escalation of the refugee crisis in the mediterranean. i have however voted against the inclusion of a financial transaction tax as this is prejudicial to economies which already face disadvantages and challenges which are already crippling for these countries. this is a key vote for me and consequently while i agree with all the remaining of the report, i cannot agree with this call.
in writing. ‒ less than a year after the success of cop21, we will in marrakesh celebrate the world's commitment to climate action. parliament will push for a solid review while closing loopholes for industries and member states. in marrakesh, the european commission and eu member states will have to specify their long-term strategies on decarbonising the economy and clarify their financial commitments to reduce the negative effects of climate change. the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, pre-2020 ambition, negotiation points, the role of non-state actors, climate finance and the reduction of non-co2 emissions among others. i have voted in favour of this resolution because it is imperative that climate change is addressed immediately, particularly for vulnerable regions such as the mediterranean region.
in writing. ‒ while i fully stand behind the un’s efforts to combat and curtail climate change, i could not support this resolution as the final version of the text called for the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which would have a disproportionate negative effect on the union’s smaller economies such as malta and would infringe the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is vital that the eu as a whole ratifies the paris agreement before cop22 in marrakesh in order to ensure the agreement enters into force, and to ensure that the eu is round the table at marrakesh.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns food contact materials which are largely used in everyday life such as food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware and so on. when in contact with food, these materials could transfer their constituents to the food and may endanger human health or adversely change the composition of the foodstuffs. i agree amongst others with the recommendation to adopt a specific eu measure for non-harmonised material, starting off with those materials that constitute a particular risk to human health and are in bigger demand in the eu, namely paper and board, including recycled paper and board, coatings, inks and adhesives.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation on fcms needs to be urgently revised in order to provide a better level of health protection. to ensure that substances coming into contact with foodstuffs do not present health risks, specific eu measures for non-harmonised materials should also be adopted to have better control standards across member states. these materials are widely used in everyday life including in food packaging and tableware, and when put in contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, the materials may behave differently, transferring constituents to food. i am in favour of this report as i believe that the main focus should be our citizens’ health and this is why i believe that we need to adopt specific eu measures to identify and prevent the use of substances which are endocrine disrupters. this would also enhance reuse and recycling properties in such materials to improve uptake in the circular economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as further harmonisation across the union and implementation of existing measures are steps in the right direction to increase citizens’ protection against the harmful effects caused by certain materials used in food packaging.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because the current legislation on food contact materials (fcms) needs to be revised with some urgency in order to provide a better level of health protection. it is essential to ensure that substances coming in contact with foodstuffs do not present health risks, specific eu measures for non-harmonised materials should also be adopted to create a level playing field and better control standards across member states. the focus should, in particular, be on risk assessment, traceability as well as enforcement and controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i agree with the proposals made by parliament’s working group on administrative law, which could provide valuable insight to the commission, as they show that a regulation on the administrative procedure of the eu’s own administration would be useful and feasible to enact. the commission’s annual report contains interesting information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. it also stresses, inter alia, that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the past five years, which is a reflection of dialogue with member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. it questionable though whether this is due to better compliance with eu law by member states or to more compromise solutions between the commission and the infringing member states.
in writing. ‒ eu legislation needs to facilitate social, judicial, environmental and economic processes and not be burdensome or increase bureaucracy. the contrary continues to feed unjustified eu scepticism among citizens. consequently, the commission should always strive to improve its practices in order to inform citizens in a timely and appropriate manner of any actions and steps taken in response to processing their complaints. this can be facilitated by a single gateway that will provide citizens with easy access to online complaint forms and user-friendly information on infringement procedures. the annual report states that it is still frequent and widespread practice that late or incomplete transposition take place. a similar situation is found in relation to the misapplication of eu law, and therefore i support its call on member states to implement and execute eu law effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that it is important to monitor member states’ legislation and to verify that it complies with eu law. it is important that member states adopt eu legislation and eu institutions should ensure an effective monitoring system.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it calls for the creation of a single gateway for citizens to easily access complaint forms and user-friendly information on infringement proceedings. this would bring existing access points and information sites together into a single access point, thus incentivising citizen involvement and increasing transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which shows that the environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. according to the report the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased as a result of the effectiveness of the informal ‘eu pilot procedure’. however, the rapporteur also points out that, given that parliament still has only limited access to information on that procedure and on pending cases, it is difficult to evaluate to what extent the reduction in formal infringement procedures actually reflects better compliance with eu law by member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i consider that the risk assessment of cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law in line with the precautionary principle, which is to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community. i therefore call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ it transpires that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate; therefore, i agree that we should withdraw the commission’s draft implementing decision. i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ maize bt11 is an insect resistant seed. it allows the use of glufosinate ammonium as weed control but the eu has restricted it as a herbicide. herbicide-resistant crops could encourage the more liberal use of these chemicals which can have knock-on environmental and health effects, especially in the third countries in which they are grown. this problem is inextricably linked to the wider debate around the safety of plant protection products, and especially the current controversies around the herbicide glyphosate. i have voted in favour of this objection as i support the idea of a strict system of authorisation of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds as a more thorough risk assessment of cultivation by efsa is needed and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds because the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law. in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) seeds as the risk assessment on the cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate.
in writing. ‒ it transpires that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate; therefore, i agree that we should withdraw the commission’s draft implementing decision. i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ parliament has also objected to the authorization of the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds. the european food safety authority stated that 1507 maize has been developed for protection against specific lepidopteran pests such as the european corn borer. it also introduced the concept of a level of ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species. my main concern is that the commission needs to come forward immediately with a new legislative framework for gmos. voting in favour of this objection will ensure that the commission commits to its work.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds as a more thorough risk assessment of cultivation by the efsa is needed and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds because the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law. in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to withdraw is draft implementing decision renewing the authorisation for the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) seeds. whereas the efsa gmo panel strongly reiterates in vain each year its recommendations to provide more detailed information on the sampling methodology, the importance of national gmo cultivation registers and its recommendations to consent holders to consider how they may make best use of the information recorded in national registers and foster dialogue with those responsible for the administration of these registers where mon 810 maize is cultivated, i consider the risk assessment on the cultivation conducted by efsa to be incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission to be inadequate.
in writing. ‒ it transpires that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate; therefore, i agree that we should withdraw the commission’s draft implementing decision. i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of authorization for maize mon 810 seeds is being objected to. the commission approved mon 810 in 1998, but it has been controversial ever since. in the case of maize mon 810 seeds, cross-contamination of an invasive plant with bt toxin has been found on eu territory. this might contribute to a decline in bio-diversity with specific risks to butterflies and moths. the cultivation authorisation renewal of seeds is based on a legal act that has proved to be dysfunctional. i have voted in favour because further knowledge and research is still needed to fully understand the extent of these gmos.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds as a more thorough risk assessment of cultivation by the efsa is needed and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds because the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law. in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) products. the draft commission implementing decision was voted on in the standing committee on 8 july 2016, with no opinion being delivered and two major reasons for a negative vote or abstention by the member states were the lack of long-term feeding and toxicity studies and insufficient risk assessment. i call on the commission to withdraw its proposal and to submit a new one.
in writing. ‒ it transpires that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate; therefore, i agree that we should withdraw the commission’s draft implementing decision. i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the import authorisation renewal of products with maize mon 810 is being objected to. the assessment made by efsa underlines the lack of data since herbicide tolerance is not assessed. mon 810's legal act has also proved to be weak. i believe that consumers should have the right to make informed decisions about what they are eating. i have voted in favour of this objection so as to reach public conclusions on maize mon 810 products' effects.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products as the commission’s draft implementing decision risks endangering health, the ecosystem and consumer interests.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products because the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law. in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law, in that it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the motion for a resolution calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ it transpires that the risk assessment of cultivation conducted by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate; therefore, i agree that we should withdraw the commission’s draft implementing decision. i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens
in writing. ‒ authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 was also voted on. this cotton is glyphosate-resistant and the import authorisation is based on a legal act that has proved to be dysfunctional. doubts about this cotton’s safety for human health and the environment are still being debated. this has led me to vote in favour of this objection until further information is issued.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection on the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 as the commission’s draft implementing decision risks endangering health, the ecosystem and consumer interests.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 because the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law. in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i would like to start by referring to the tragedy that occurred this morning in malta where a small plane crashed as it was leaving our country. all five french nationals on board were killed. initial reports from the maltese government indicate that these persons were working on a customs operation. my thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this tragedy and their families. thanks also to the rescuers who were immediately on the scene and did everything they could to manage the situation. to move on to today's debate, the report before us includes a positive improvement on the european commission's original proposal. i would like to thank in particular all the speakers and the shadows for the good cooperation we had to get to where we are today. many of the points that our group has always insisted on have been included in the european parliament's position. it is now clear that customs infringements can be brought only once. we removed all reference to the customs infringement with strict liability, which was contrary to the presumption of innocence. the fact that customs penalties will, for the most part, be linked to the value of the duty not paid and not to the value of the goods, is a positive step for smes, especially those dealing with high value goods, as is the removal of any reference to the minimum level of penalties in the case of so-called minor infringements, something we stressed. in conclusion, the text before us today is not perfect. one of my concerns is that there is still a lack of clarity as to where member states may impose criminal sanctions if national laws so provide. i have no doubt that this will be discussed with the council, when and if a decision is taken to take this dossier forward.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all allow me to congratulate mr corrao for this comprehensive, balanced, deep analysis of the issue of corporate social responsibility in third countries. as the council conclusions of june 2016 show, business and human rights is a priority for the european union. this year the council also adopted conclusions on responsible global value chains. as set out in the european union action plan on human rights and democracy 2015 – 2019, the european union’s member states are committed to make an advance on business and human rights. corporate respect for human rights is indispensable. as you do in your report, we consistently call on all business enterprises, both transnational and domestic, to integrate human rights due diligence into their operations, to better identify, prevent, and mitigate human rights risks. the european union supports the united nations guiding principles. the proper implementation is good for the european union and good for business. the european union member states have taken the lead internationally on developing and adopting national action plans to implement the guiding principles. as you rightly point out, mr corrao, access to effective remedies for victims of business-related human rights abuses is an issue on which further progress is still required. in this context, i am pleased that the european union fundamental rights agency is currently working on an expert opinion on how to lower barriers for access to remedy at the european union level. i also welcome the recent adoption of the council of europe’s committee of ministers’ recommendations on human rights and business with a particular focus on access to remedy. the european institutions and member states need to implement these recommendations. furthermore, the european union welcomes the initiative on enhancing accountability and access to remedy of the un office of the high commissioner for human rights. this may provide best practices that can be implemented at the european union and member state level, including on improved cooperation between states in cross-border cases. as regards our external policy, in line with the action plan on human rights and democracy, the eeas and the member states will continue to raise business and human rights in their contacts with third countries. this also includes human rights dialogues, as well as dedicated seminars and financial support aimed at the development of the national action plans on business and human rights. also important is the need to build capacity, both within european union delegations and member states’ embassies, to work effectively on business and human rights issues, including providing support to human rights defenders working on corporate accountability. as regards the legally-binding instrument on business and human rights, the european union has followed carefully the preparation of the intergovernmental working group in geneva. since the start, we made our participation in the working group dependent on two principled conditions: first, ensuring that the scope of the discussion is not limited to transnational corporations, and second, making sure that the implementation of ungps is not undermined. this position was supported by a range of countries across different regions and by a number of civil society organisations. in the run-up to the next meeting of the intergovernmental working group on 24 october, the european union has been actively engaged with the chair-rapporteur and with all regional political groups with a view to addressing these issues and finding a solution that would entitle the european union to provide a more active contribution to the works of the group. i am pleased to inform the honourable members that the european union requests have been met by the chair-rapporteur. the european union therefore took the decision to participate in the intergovernmental working group. the debate is now now open, and your contributions on how to improve the international legal framework for the protection of human rights in the context of corporate activities are all the more precious. there was a direct question from ms hautala. what i can tell you is that the preparation of a paper on the commission policy document on corporate social responsibility is currently ongoing. finally, let me thank you again for this important contribution to the debate on business and human rights and for an excellent report that represents a reference for our work.
mr president, thank you, commissioner. from a small country to another small country – malta. i would speak from the point of view of malta because, yes, we do understand that, to reach the eu’s energy and climate targets by 2030 (but most of all provide affordable energy), liquefied natural gas should be considered as an alternative fuel solution, particularly for certain member states. lng not only cuts down radically co2 emissions but is also a transitory link between the current fuel-based system and the futures’ low carbon energy and transport scenarios, including also for vehicles and maritime vessels. coming from malta, i believe that there is a clear potential for synergies – which are yet to be exploited – between the gas-rich north african region and the european union. it is positive that this strategy acknowledges that lng and gas storage will contribute towards ending energy isolation, which affects member states, including malta – more so since it is a key objective of the eu’s energy union that all member states have access to liquid gas markets. this is a mature technology where the global market is still booming, and the eu and its member states should not stay behind.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark as a way of stepping up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of implementing council decision 2008/615/jha 2007/0804(cns) with regards to automated data exchange based on dna data in denmark.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe member states’ individual law enforcement authorities require all the tools possible in order to increase the exchange of information and combat crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in agreement with the council position to the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark as a way of improving security in europe and of stepping up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of implementing council decision 2008/615/jha 2007/0804(cns) with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which allows denmark to both provide and receive dactyloscopic data for use in criminal investigations as denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent for an agreement to provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement was made possible under the aegis of the migration and mobility dialogue between the eu and china. this is the framework under which both parties exchange views and discuss possibilities for cooperation on issues of mutual interest on their respective migration policies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i am in favour of this recommendation as visa liberalisation brings tangible benefits. both european and chinese diplomats would benefit from the short-stay visa waiver as until now china has been among those countries whose nationals are required to hold a visa when travelling to the schengen area and eu citizens also need a visa to enter china.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union who hold a diplomatic or laissez-passer and for the citizens holding a diplomatic passport from china when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to enhance cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the provisions for financial assistance after coming under economic adjustment programmes due to the persistent fragile nature of the economies of both cyprus and greece. i believe that the commission proposal is a focused and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by both eu member states. i therefore voted in favour of the commission proposal without any amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the financial and economic crisis has put pressure on national economies. therefore, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the main eu funding tool, the european structural and investment funds (esif). in many member states, investments by the european structural and investment funds are the main source of investment, and thus we must ensure a beneficial implementation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution, as it is essential that members of the union show solidarity in times of difficulty. the proposed measures would allow cyprus and greece to be given top-ups to enable european structural and investment funds to be sufficiently co-financed and bring the most benefit to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of jean-marie le pen as there is a request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity by the examining magistrates at the paris regional court.
in writing. ‒ i agree that there is no direct, obvious connection between the proceedings in question and her duties as member of the european parliament, as they do not relate to her activity as a member of the european parliament and were made in the context of national political debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving a first-reading agreement with the council of ministers once it had been accepted that the most efficient and cost-effective way to avoid overlapping between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era) would be to strengthen cooperation between those institutions and ensure that statistical data related to eu policies would be easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders. this was possible only after the signing of two memoranda of understanding (mous), which are especially important instruments, as they will also enable better use to be made of rail transport statistics. these will provide all categories of users with easily accessible data and reliable information on the progress of european policies in the rail sector.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this recommendation for second reading on the council position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, is it updates, simplifies and optimises the existing legal framework for european statistics on rail transport. this data would also help to develop the common transport policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution going to a second reading, as the measures will lead to better use of the data collected and reduce the administrative burden on the institutions responsible whilst also ensuring that there will be no overlapping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a first-reading agreement with the council of ministers following an agreement to consider the transport of passengers by inland waterway within the scope of the regulation and to integrate statistics on passenger transport into the regulation. the commission, in cooperation with member states, will develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway. it will also launch voluntary pilot studies to test the feasibility of the new data collection systems. and finally, it will submit the results of those studies to parliament and the council and consider whether to propose a revision of the regulation. i agree that the financing of the pilot projects should be supported by the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this recommendation as goods and passenger data would strengthen the statistical coverage of inland waterways transport, with a view to ensuring uniform conditions on the arrangements for transmitting data to eurostat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution, as i support parliament’s efforts to include inland waterway passenger transport in the regulation on inland waterway goods transport. parliament is striving to ensure that inland navigation can play a larger part in the transport network and statistical information would help in that endeavour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, particularly for infringements sanctions. the european parliament and the epp in particular sought to change significantly the initial commission proposal in terms of its scope, category of infringements and corresponding sanctions. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite the positive improvement noted in the amendments to the proposed directive on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions, there are still a number of serious problems that are still evident. there is also lack of clarity as to the cases wherein member states can impose criminal sanctions. these problems pose various difficulties that require the introduction of new systems in the maltese legal system. for these reasons i voted against the commission proposal and in favour of referring back the report to committee.
in writing. ‒ as the epp shadow rapporteur on this file, i voted in favour of the amendments put forward by the committee on the internal market aimed at improving the text of this proposal, such as by removing the possibility of strict liability customs infringements in line with the presumption of innocence principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget as i believe in the current security system within the institutions needs to be reinforced. the budget for security of several institutions was reviewed after the aftermath of the paris and brussels terrorist attacks of november 2015 and march 2016 respectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, since, following the recent terror attacks, i believe that we need to reinforce the security of the institutions including european schools, the parliament, the commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to increase the budget to heighten security at the union’s institutions following the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report encouraging a renewed relationship between the eu and iran to ensure a more stable region and effective implementation of the nuclear deal without compromising on the human rights situation in iran concerning amongst others the detention of political prisoners and women’s rights. parliament believes all sides are now responsible for ensuring the strict and full implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides a balanced message about the eu’s relations with iran. i believe that this report will offer the required support to hr mogherini during her overseeing of the implementation of the nuclear deal, trust-building and expansion of relations in areas of mutual interest. however, we must ensure that iran lives up to its international commitments on human rights. having said that, we need to make sure that the number of executions in this country are addressed and all political prisoners released.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the union’s strategy towards iran following the joint comprehensive plan of action. it is important that we acknowledge the diplomatic success of the jcpoa and build upon its successes in the hope of bringing stability to the region as a whole.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the howitt resolution on the eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement is conditioned by the following considerations. nothing in the text should be understood now or in the future as tending to encourage the eu or its member states to include regime change as a component of their policy towards iran. evident or implied criticism of the iranian government’s internal and external policies should be taken as defining the parameters within which the european union will undertake cooperation on all fronts with iran. in no way should it be taken to mean that the eu proposes to intervene in iran’s internal processes to influence decisions and policies there. even when the eu makes critical submissions to the iranian authorities about their decisions and policies, such submissions will be made in good faith. it is up to the iranian people to decide about their national systems. where in the past, the european union and its member states have supported or been a party to policies that were intended to promote regime change, results have been disastrous, both for the countries concerned and for europe. the examples of iraq and libya stand out in this context.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i attach great importance in the fight against corruption and crime. as a representative of eu citizens i take every opportunity to ensure that this principle is upheld in particular in my country. the draft report analyses the current situation in the eu regarding the fight against crime and makes proposals for combatting new forms of crimes with european instruments. the focus is amongst others on public officials and corruption, whistle-blower protections and use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as we need to recognise the importance of having an effective strategy which is backed up by a serious action plan to tackle organised crime and corruption, which is infiltrating many levels of society in the eu. i am in favour of the specific areas requiring action listed in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls for the union to increase its efforts to combat corruption, organised crime, fraud and money laundering which remain a priority. we need greater cooperation between security services and law enforcement across the union, this is a point that i have long supported and will continue to push for. i also support the rapporteur’s call for the commission to release its second anti-corruption report.
in writing. ‒ i agree on the importance of upholding the rights of migrants and fro states to recognise their obligations under international law, but in this particular report i was unable to vote in favour of the text as i felt it did not go far enough in terms of, amongst others, effectively implementing existing bilateral readmission agreements for those who do not qualify for asylum and protection in the eu.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global, multidimensional phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, i have always advocated the need to analyse and address the main root causes of migration in third countries. we need to address the human rights protection gap and this is why i am in favour of this report as it recognises that various challenges and risks in respecting the rights of migrants exist within the context of the current crisis such as segregation within hosting and detention, recognition for lgbti refugees, access to employment and training, training for social skills, integration measures, economic and cultural dependence and voluntary returns. as in line with my position i voted against reference to abortion in this report.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the final version of this text as essential amendments regarding readmission agreements and the safe return of those who do not qualify for asylum and protection in the union were not adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i recognise the major importance of corporate responsibility to ensure that there are no human rights abuses when conducting operations in third countries. i believe that transparency and communication regarding measures taken to avoid human rights abuses in third countries are important in order to allow proper democratic oversight. it is important, though, that policies address company size and their coping mechanisms together with those companies dealing in raw materials from conflict-affected areas.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it calls on the corporate actors to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations. we need to address all types of human rights abuses in third countries. i fully support the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights and their worldwide implementation. each and every single life must be protected and not subject to a business enterprise management decision.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it acknowledges that corporations must play a leading role in protecting human rights due to the nature of international trade and global supply chains. the report notes the importance of the adoption of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights whilst calling for corporations to carry out regular due diligence to flag any possible human rights abuses within their operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am convinced amongst others that safety rules and impact assessments are paramount where lng (liquefied natural gas) storage is concerned. i also agree that the added value of any new lng infrastructure must first be ascertained. this is particularly important within malta’s context whereby it is becoming increasingly clear that the new gas tanker which will be used as an lng storage for the new gas power station is both unnecessary and less cost-effective than just using the recently built electricity interconnector which connects malta to the european grid and the proposed gas pipeline project which will connect the island state of malta to mainland europe.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report since it lays down the eu’s strategy when it comes to lng. lng is the ideal transitory fuel for a number of member states that need to move from a fossil-fuel based economy to a non-pollutant source of energy. lng is a cleaner source of energy for a number of countries which are until today dependant on coal or heavy fuel oil. we need to make sure to move away from pollutant energy sources and diversify our energy supply to ensure energy security and these points are all acknowledged in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that calls for a union-wide strategy for lng. the report focuses on permanent facilities for the safe storage of lng and emphasises the need for safety. it also emphasises the need for impact assessments before any facilities are constructed and calls for stringent safety measures to be place when this fuel is stored.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stresses the importance of ensuring the effective control of fishing activities in order to guarantee sustainability of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets. this can only be achieved through the effective implementation of the eu control regulation. there has been significant improvement in the control regime, but more needs to be done especially in fisheries control operations and the sharing of data by member states in real time in particular during control operations conducted by european fisheries control agency (efca).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stresses the importance to enforce eu regulations where there is a lack of transparency between member states that prevents the illegal importation of fish. i voted in favour of a more uniform fisheries controls in europe which takes into consideration the environment and fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it call for the union’s fisheries rules to be applied in a fair and just matter to all our citizens engaged in fishing activity through the elimination of disparities between member states, a core curriculum for inspectors and sharing of information that is compatible across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that a further boost is necessary to improve the cross-border connectivity in the north-south direction between the eu member states in central and eastern europe. although a lot has been done in terms of modernisation and improvements since membership, there is still room for further improvement. this can be achieved through a balance of using different modes of land, water and air transport, including the promotion of inter-modality through hubs, ports and reassessing cross-border rail connections.
in writing. ‒ the report provides input for addressing the development of the different modes of land, water and air transport in the central and eastern eu, including the promotion of inter-modality through hubs and in ports and the need for redressing cross-border passenger rail connections. i am in favour of this report as it aims to improve the accessibility and connection of transport infrastructure which recognises the need of cycling provisions in new road development, protection of the environment and biodiversity while including measures to reduce road accidents.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls for the ten-t network to continue to tackle the connectivity challenges of central and eastern european member states. the report highlights gaps in the transport network that need to be overcome in order to facilitate economic growth in the region and across the union. it also flags inland waterways as a transport network that should be used to a greater extent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the mechanism which is being proposed within this report to monitor member states’ compliance with democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights falls within the framework of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). under the treaty, the european union has a duty to protect its constitutional basis and core values, shared among all its member states. the failure of the eu to uphold its own rules, and the perception there are no common european values, are also undermining mutual trust and a reliable, stable legal framework, essential for a well-functioning eu in all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that every citizen in the european union deserves a solid democracy safeguarded by rule of law and fundamental rights. however, i have reservations on particular aspects of the report which devalue and even impinge upon the principle of subsidiarity already enshrined within the european union’s treaty and charter of fundamental rights. this is why i also voted against the deletion of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights as the charter and national systems of fundamental rights. furthermore, in cases where national systems hold certain fundamental rights to a higher regard than the eu charter, such a policy implication would decrease the level of protection for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s call for a watchdog that will monitor the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights within the union. it is essential that the eu’s core values are protected and respected.
in writing. – the commission work programme for 2017 has a high and a low point. the high point forms part of the youth initiative, in itself a most worthwhile priority. the proposal to establish a european solidarity corps merits full support. it seeks to engage young people in worthwhile public initiatives from which they could learn social and technical skills, while understanding better today’s realities in a changing europe. one hopes that the scheme will operate on a devolved basis, drawing fully on national bodies involved in youth affairs. the worst that could happen to it is to be subsumed in the values and concerns of people living in the brussels bubble. by contrast the proposal to work on a european defence action plan and a european defence fund is totally ill-advised. it is the kind of project that people in the brussels bubble will dream of in their efforts to counter what they see as europa fatigue. besides having unintended consequences, some of them unknown, others dangerous, a so-called european defence capability, or even a start to it, will simply end up, sooner rather than later, reinforcing the wide scepticism about the european project that these people seek to contain.
rapporteur. – mr president, may i start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, assistants and all staff involved in the preparation of this draft report for the very good work. even when they disagreed with the compromises reached, they all made extremely valid contributions to the work at hand. the draft report presents the latest reflection on the state of european economies from the perspective of the european commission’s recommendations to member states on how to run their national economic systems so as to deliver growth and stability. during the last two years, the commission streamlined its recommendations in parts by making them leaner and more focused. the change in approach was commendable. the aim here has been to follow up on it by concentrating on a few themes rather than to stretch over the whole width of policy concerns that the european semester covers. for, with a few exceptions, the state of the european economy still remains less than satisfactory. while growth has now emerged, it remains uneven and sluggish, even as doubts persist about european competitiveness. while unemployment is retreating overall and new jobs are being created, the situation on the jobs market remains bleak, not least for young people. while the pessimism about the future that was prevalent a few years ago has retreated, investment still is at historically low levels. the draft report considers this last concern as critical to the situation that we face. no matter what policies are adopted, if the investment that is generated remains insufficient, economic performance will lag on all fronts. for this reason we have concentrated in this report on investment issues. it is true that on many areas of economic management, we have among us divergent views, but at the level of a desire to encourage greater investment in europe, we all share a commitment to make this happen. the situation as of now is that there is a very significant shortfall in investment, both public and private, compared to what were used to in the not so distant past. to be sure, this investments debt is not happening just in europe, but across the capitalist world. still, it is of interest to us all to reflect about what can be done to reverse the trend. now personally i acknowledge the intellectual validity of arguments made by those who believe that current european governance structures, especially at the level of the eurozone, are sub-optimal. in and of themselves they serve to inhibit investment. so long as they prevail it is illusory to believe that significant long-term investment can be generated, so such arguments go. nevertheless, the reality is that with the same existing governance structures, the european system has succeeded in the past to generate much higher levels of investment than at present. there is every reason, therefore, to seek to attain at least those past investment levels since experience shows they are attainable. we have therefore sought to highlight those commission recommendations, as well as the commission’s own initiatives, that focus on investment issues; there are quite a number. naturally, within the boundary conditions for our discussions, these issues have to be framed coherently, with adherence to the rules of the stability and growth pact, such as budgetary discipline, implemented with the appropriate flexibility that the same rules allow. meanwhile, the need for ongoing structural reforms has to be underlined, on the understanding that such reforms must be sustainable and socially fair. beyond these considerations the need remains to show support for all growth-centred proposals that will increase the propensity to invest across the union as a whole. among others there are: proposals relating to access to equity and bank lending; to research and innovation; to education and training; to the promotion of smes; to efsi and other funds that mobilise capital for new investment with a renewed structure aiming for a complete regional outreach of such funding; and on such lines also, the concept of green investment with environmental protection at its core. however, one cannot avoid making a remark that has become almost ritualistic in parliament reports on the commission’s country-specific recommendations, which is that these recommendations will remain less than effective if governments and stakeholders in the respective national economies do not feel committed to them – if they do not own them as the jargon goes. on this point, the draft report emphasises that in order to arrive at such a sense of ownership, sub—national and regional authorities should be brought fully into the process by which country-specific recommendations are envisaged. on the ground, these bodies are now responsible for 60% of public investment proposals. they also have an extensive interface with private investment across a wide range of economic sectors. i will surely be most interested, mr president, to hear the views of all colleagues on the challenge of using investment that europe faces.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate and as i said in my introductory remarks, from your report too we see that actually we share a number of concerns and a number of ways to address them. a number of issues were raised during this debate, including how to facilitate investment and this is indeed one of the three priorities in our european semester. the intention of the commission is to continue to follow up on how we can promote investment through the investment plan for europe, but also through the rules in the stability and growth pact, which specifically allows for deviation from budgetary targets to promote more investment. issues related to the social dimension, dealing with the problems of poverty, of inequality, addressing the issues in our labour markets, are also featuring more prominently in the european semester than was the case in previous years and the commission intends to continue and follow up on this. the question of current account surpluses was raised and this is indeed also the question which is being addressed by the commission to countries like germany and the netherlands. it is something which is the reason why the commission is pursuing in-depth reviews of the economies of those countries and also finding them to be experiencing macroeconomic imbalances. so this is certainly part of the picture. in any case, the commission intends to continue its work along the priority lines which have been set up, promoting investment, structural reforms and fiscally responsible policies.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, many thanks for this debate. this was indeed quite a valuable stock-taking where we could hear your views on how the european semester is functioning and, above all, what we can achieve together within the european semester when it comes to our common efforts to work on jobs and growth and economic prosperity. now we know where we are finding ourselves. first of all i would like to once again recall how much we value the revamped european semester. i think that the changes the commission introduced in 2015, last year, are very good because they help us better transform what we agree in the european semester and then transform it into action at national level. i remember when the semester started; it can hardly be compared in quality with the semester that we are having right now. secondly, many of you have rightly pointed and appealed to member states to better implement. this is once again well understood and legitimate. nevertheless, i represent the member states and you would agree with me that implementation is not a bureaucratic exercise. at the end of the day, it is hard to convince our people – our voters – to support reforms and structural reforms, how to observe fiscal rules that we have established ourselves, and this is very painful. so please understand why we have committed to better implement. at the same time, bear in mind that this is a very demanding process back home. lastly, i hope we will be able in the council to draw on lessons from this year, this 2016 semester, when preparing the next one. and the next one, i would like to announce, will be for the first time on the agenda of general affairs council in november.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank all participants in this debate for their very interesting contributions, as well as once again my friends and colleagues all the shadow rapporteurs. if anything, i hope that our work together in preparing for this report, as well as the debate in plenary, have served to underline once more the challenge of investment in europe. when we talk about investment we are really talking about the future, for investment builds the foundations for future progress and for new achievements. we are also talking, however, about the present, for investment replaces and renews those resources which we need now to maintain the living standards of people. when we say resources we mean material ones, human ones and those resources that relate to knowledge and techniques. the sad truth is that in europe, as elsewhere, but certainly in europe, investment in real terms has fallen well below the levels that it had reached, let us say, ten years ago. the shortfall covers both investment to replace what has been used up, as well as investment in new resources and utilities. whatever our views about the available policy options, we have shown that we care about investment, that we consider it to be a priority. perhaps there is also agreement that more must be done to promote and enhance it, though there is disagreement about how this challenge can be achieved. i would like to acknowledge and support the emphasis that the commission, in its initiatives and in its country-specific recommendations, has given to the topic of investment. still, the commission needs to do more, perhaps much more, and not simply by widening the efsi instrument. it also needs, in my view, to affirm the need for more public investment that is sharper, better focused, better planned, better implemented. however, about this, not all agree. finally, i would think that from the debate that we have held on the country-specific recommendations, two other main issues can be underlined. first, there is the importance of allocating more resources to create a european investment culture, to renew investments in education and knowledge-based activities, not least in the digital field but also in the basic sciences, all tying into research and development as well as the quest for innovation. secondly, there is the need to ensure that the country-specific recommendations are meaningful to all relevant actors so that they also own them. a central involvement should be given to subnational and to regional authorities.
the council noted that last week, in its conclusions, it condemned the attacks on civilians in aleppo and called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and for a credible political process to continue under the auspices of the united nations. unfortunately, after the short-lived ceasefire agreement ended and only two days after the council conclusions, the fighting in aleppo intensified again. today i am talking about aleppo because i cannot ignore; we cannot ignore, what is happening there. i cannot ignore this human tragedy that is turning aleppo into a city cursed with 300 000 civilians trapped in place and deprived of water, food, supplies and medical care and limited to a hospital bed. worse still, 100 000 trapped in the city are children exposed to the extreme suffering and terror of daily bombings. decisive action by our international allies is needed to: - stop these atrocities; - an immediate ceasefire agreement is reached; - and humanitarian channels are opened to deliver humanitarian aid and evacuate patients.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget refers to new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terror attacks. it proposes to reinforce the budget for security among other things in a number of institutions. as far as the european parliament is concerned it aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of security agents. i voted in favour of this draft budget since it refers to an allocation that is required for the next financial year.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament’s position on the draft general budget for 2017 which calls for more support for the agencies dealing with the migration crisis as well as calling for greater support for the union’s unemployed and its youth.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this draft budget, since it refers to an allocation that is required for the next financial year. this draft amending budget refers to new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terror attacks and proposes to reinforce the budget for security among other things in a number of institutions. as far as the european parliament is concerned it aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of security agents.
in writing. ‒ the budget 2017 needs to be considered in the wider context of the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). it has to be in line with the 2020 targets. the eu is currently facing a number of serious emergencies and new challenges, which could not be foreseen at the time that the mff 2014-2020 was set-up. therefore, increased financial resources need to be deployed from the union budget, in order to meet these challenges, such as the migration challenge and slow economic growth, and allow the union to respond effectively to those crises as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. the council has overall reduced most headings of the budget, with 52% of the overall council cuts in commitments falling within subheading 1a on competitiveness for growth and jobs. when faced with this situation, questions arise as to the council’s political priority on jobs and growth, infrastructure projects as well as for fighting youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises the need for a higher budget allocation to be able to tackle new realities. the 3.8% addition in budget when compared to the 2016 allocation is required in order for the european parliament to have the financial tools needed to keep working effectively. an example of realities which require further financing is the current refugee and migratory challenges while continuing with the support of sustainable development goals and the funding for victims of terrorism amongst others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft general budget for 2017 as more funds are needed to tackle the migration crisis and to support the union’s youth that are often over-represented in the number of unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which recognises the need for a higher budget allocation to be able to tackle new realities. an example of realities which require further financing are the current refugee and migratory challenges while continuing with the support of sustainable development goals and the funding for victims of terrorism amongst others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to secure the appropriate funds for the remaining four years of the multi financial framework (mff) in order to promote growth, jobs and competitiveness, address youth unemployment and the migration and refugee crisis, ensure internal security in the eu and fight terrorism. it should also prevent a future payment crisis in the eu budget. the mff mid-term revision should also represent an excellent opportunity to secure the appropriate funding for newly-proposed programmes like the ‘18th birthday interrail pass for europe’, as the mobility of young people is essential in increasing a sense of european identity. this is all about not just the economy, but the review of the eu’s credibility. it is important that funds start pouring through to the regions and young people in our member states in order for the eu to be visible also at local level.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff), which sets the framework for the eu’s annual budget, needs to be revised to allow for additional funding and greater flexibility. this helps the eu to deal with the unprecedented number of challenges that europe is facing and will be facing in the future. the report points out the insufficiency of available resources as well as criticism for the commission’s proposal. this is why i have voted in favour of the position on the commission’s proposal on the revision of the mff 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls for more resources in the multiannual financial framework in order for the union to tackle the multiple crises that have arisen over the past few years. it is my hope that the mid-term revision will yield positive results to overcome the existing disparities.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff), which sets the framework for the eu’s annual budget, needs to be revised to allow for additional funding and greater flexibility. this helps the eu to deal with the unprecedented number of challenges that europe is facing and will be facing in the future. the report points out the insufficiency of available resources as well as criticism for the commission’s proposal. this is why i have voted in favour of the position on the commission’s proposal on the revision of the mff 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the commission has concluded, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. estonia is entitled to a financial contribution, which represents 60% of the total cost for personalised services consisting of support for formal studies, payment of the cost of training, training cost reimbursement for employers, labour market training, work practice, debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowances relating to participation in formal studies, scholarships, transport and accommodation benefits for estonian language training. i believe that the egf could be a particularly valuable tool to help workers from countries with small economies and more vulnerable union economies. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that support should be provided to workers made redundant due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to help address the situation of workers in the petroleum and chemical industry in estonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in which this eu directive is expected to set minimum conditions for accessibility to public sector bodies’ websites and it also requires regular monitoring and reporting of the sites and apps accessibility by member states. the european parliament worked hard at covering also mobile applications. certain content will be excluded, but only of not needed for essential administrative procedures. this is all done without creating a disproportionate burden and the exclusion of websites held by public service broadcasters and their subsidiaries. monitoring and reporting mechanism worked on a two layered system ensuring better application.
in writing. ‒ websites and mobile applications should be accessible for all. we are living in a digital age and all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this is why i am in favour of this directive as it aims at approximating the laws of the member states on the accessibility of websites of public sector bodies by defining harmonised requirements. i believe that this directive provides a framework for cheaper web accessibility and would be beneficial for governments and citizens. i am in favour of this report as it also improves the accessibility for the blind, the deaf and persons with functional disabilities and promotes an inclusive digital society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution, which calls for measures to improve the accessibility of the sites and apps run by public sector bodies. it is of the utmost importance that no segment of the union’s population is left behind in our drive towards a digital economic and the sharing of information between governments and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because we all live in a digital age, and therefore all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an agreement at second reading. generally the new regulation is to address the increased risks in the plant health sector from new pests and diseases arising from globalisation and climate change, as well as the risk associated with plants imported from third countries. it introduces for example the idea of a ‘plant passport system’ to all movements of plants for planting within the eu, including those ordered through distance sales, with the exception of home gardeners.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as this new framework reinforces the synergies with the plant reproductive material regime to protect eu agriculture from the entry and spreading of plant pests. the report also asks for better surveillance and the early eradication of outbreaks of new pests whilst introducing a plant passport, which is an innovative way to ensure a high degree of traceability. i am confident that the new legislation will assure a higher degree of security for the european union with regards to imports of plants and plant products whilst also ensuring support for farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion to reject the council position as new rules are needed to curb the number of plant pests that infect the union’s ecosystem. i welcome the new measures that will allow for a rapid response to suspect plant imports and the new contingency plans across the union in case of an outbreak.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new legislation will assure a high degree of security for the european union with regards to imports of plants and plant products. with the new system, the introduction of pests such as xyllela fastidiosa in southern italy or asian long-horned beetle in the uk would be much more difficult. also the new measures for quarantine will be tailor-made for each case and farmers would be supported in the eradication procedures also receiving compensation for their loses. the introduction of a plant passport is also an innovation brought in by this regulation which would ensure a high degree of traceability. therefore i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s focus in its 2016 country-specific recommendations (csrs) on the three main priorities to further strengthen economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially-balanced structural reforms and encouraging responsible public finance. i fully support the efforts made to ensure greater national ownership in the formulation and implementation of csrs as an ongoing reform process. europe’s long economic crisis has highlighted the need to facilitate investment in education, innovation and research and development, while enhancing the eu’s competitiveness by pursuing sustainable structural reforms to boost quality job creation and implementing responsible fiscal policies to create a better environment for jobs, businesses (especially smes) and investment. unemployment rates are still high, especially for youth unemployment. support measures to facilitate access to financing, particularly for smes, is vital if the continuing high unemployment in many member states is to be tackled effectively.
in writing. ‒ the european semester includes the commission’s analyses of the fiscal and structural reform policies of every member state by providing recommendations, and monitors their implementation; and the member states’ implementation of the commonly agreed policies. the report focuses on the need to increase investment in the eu for growth, employment, poverty and social inequality. it also asks for an imbalance procedure for economic coordination and an eu minimum income framework for social inclusion. this is why i am in favour of this report as it is well balanced and outlines the main areas that require further attention.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution which welcomes the commission’s efforts to streamline the european semester by focusing on the key policy areas. in the current economic climate it is essential that the union continues to support innovation and job creation whilst not pursuing policies that may breach the principle of subsidiarity in the areas of tax policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because the eu and the member states need to better implement the revised economic policy mix, which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policies objectives including quality employment, education, innovation and growth enhancing policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling the commission to propose introducing limits for trans fats (tfas) in industrially-processed foods as excess consumption of tfas causes health problems. as only a limited number of people can actually make sense of tfa labelling, it is even more important to introduce tfa limits in processed food. although high-in-tfas non-pre-packaged food and fried-on-the-spot food is exempt from these limits. although the introduction of tfa limits should not be a problem for the food industry as a whole, as limits already exist in some member states, smaller producers may face difficulties in adapting to future standards. in order to counteract this possibility we have asked the commission to carry out a substantial impact assessment before presenting its proposal.
in writing. ‒ industrial trans-fats are the single most dangerous nutrient for heart health, and adding them to processed foods isn't necessary. i am in favour of this report as i believe that trans-fats should be addressed as their consumption has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. i call on the commission to propose as soon as possible mandatory limit on industrial trans-fats in order to reduce their intake amongst all population groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to set mandatory limits on industrially-produced fatty acids that put people at greater risk of a vast range of diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls to accept an eu legal limit subject to the need for a comprehensive impact assessment on industry and the availability of the necessary instruments to assist industry in an eventual transition. using palm oil is one way to lower trans fat levels. the semi-fluid or solid consistency of palm oil makes it a suitable alternative to partially hydrogenated oils and fats, which contain increased levels of trans fatty acids. in food applications, palm oil is usually blended with other vegetable oils, rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufa). this improves the nutritional composition of the final food product (i.e. by increasing the pufa content of the final food product whilst retaining the palm oil functionalities).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr gianni pittella and the other members of parliament for what you have said. your words speak to our hearts and now i will tell you what i think. thank you for scheduling this very timely debate, because it is really very timely. let me assure you that the protection of children in the context of migration and the current refugee crisis is central to our overall migration policy, both for their short-term as well as their long-term needs. the commission, as you will remember, announced in its communication of 10 february 2016 a comprehensive approach to the protection of all children in migration, including unaccompanied minors. these actions are geared towards strengthening child protection systems in the member states and are now being implemented. the commission will also evaluate and report by the end of this year on the implementation of the 2010-2014 action plan on unaccompanied minors. all our efforts are concerted to address the complex and urgent issues that need to be resolved to ensure the adequate protection of migrant children arriving in europe. member states must ensure that they are capable of respecting the rights and meeting the needs of children in migration and addressing several gaps. these gaps include: providing adequate reception conditions, including psycho-social care; prevention of children going missing, and ensuring adequate responses in case they do; effective guardianship; access to information; access to legal counsel and assistance and other procedural safeguards and procedures, such as dublin transfers and family reunification; and the use of arbitrary administrative detention and inappropriate detention conditions. let me remind you that detention is never the objective, but can only be a last resort. the commission is acting to address all these gaps. the recent legislative proposals to reform the common european asylum system include stronger provisions on the protection, care and procedural safeguards for children. these new proposals aim at strengthening the protection of children, including those who are unaccompanied. they address key areas such as ensuring adequate reception conditions, ensuring access to specialised services and education for migrant children, ensuring psycho-social support for victims of trauma, and speeding up family reunification procedures. nevertheless, more needs to be done to ensure that alternatives to detention are available and used, and to ensure the expansion of family-based care, such as foster care, for unaccompanied children. with regard to family reunification, our dublin proposal provides for clear and precise rules and will enhance the efficiency of the system significantly without compromising any essential safeguards. the procedures will be shorter, and current shifts of responsibility between member states will no longer be possible. it also broadens the concept of family members to include the applicants siblings. one of the main gaps has been on effective guardianship, where we have seen long delays in appointment and guardians being assigned unworkable caseloads of up to 1 000 children. our asylum reform proposals address this issue. i count on your support and that of the member states to agree on these reforms, so we can ensure these safeguards in reality as soon as possible. in addition, the recent action plan on integration actions addresses education for children in migration. for children in reception centres our asylum reform proposals aim at further strengthening a child's right to access to education, including if they are in detention. under the emergency support instrument, targeted funding is allocated to additional education activities for children. outside the european union, eu funding has been made available to programmes for vulnerable syrian refugees and host community children and adolescents. according to the council decisions on relocation, applications made by unaccompanied children and vulnerable persons shall be prioritised. despite this, so far very few unaccompanied children have been relocated from greece and very few member states have made places available for them. to date, no children have been relocated from italy. in our recent report we have also raised this issue. as you know, the commission is monitoring the situation in greece and italy very closely and is in continuous dialogue with member states, urging them to make pledges to relocate unaccompanied children. finally, to foster a discussion between those working in asylum and migration and those working in child protection, the commission is dedicating the 10th european forum on the rights of the child on 29 november 2016 to the protection of children in migration, where there will also be a dedicated side meeting on the guardianship of unaccompanied children. as i said at the beginning, protecting the most sensitive and the most vulnerable in this refugee crisis and those are indeed children is of paramount importance to the commission. it is one of our priorities. but it needs many more stakeholders and actors involved to make this happen. the commission counts on the european parliament as its partner on this. i would like to close by saying that this is not an issue that should in fact be debated. it is an issue that should simply be addressed, urgently and jointly.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in this house we have listened to every single side of the migration debate. i am convinced that we can have a situation where we are humane with those in need of protection, but firm with those who are not eligible. this careful balance must be the basis of any policy and i am happy to debate this at any time. but when it comes to children, politicians do not have the luxury of time. the anguish of parents who pack a little plastic bag and send their children, often alone, on rickety boats, to europe, knowing the dangers – but who do it anyway because even a small chance of a better life for their child is better than the certainty that awaits them if they stay behind – is almost unimaginable. the truth is that often those children who survive the journey find themselves in no man’s land, alone, vulnerable and easily exploited. the statistics are heart-breaking; thousands of children have gone missing, but only 46 unaccompanied minors have been relocated – forty-six. yes, we need to make sure that no one abuses loopholes in our system; and yes, we need to ensure that proper age determination is carried out; but states cannot turn their backs. we need our responses to improve, and we are calling for a series of measures to protect children, including quicker processing times, improving guardianship and access to education, ending arbitrary detention, and getting children reunited with their families. we can do better, and we must do better, because it is true that, as one famous poet put it, no one puts their child in a boat unless the water is safer than the land.
in writing. – franklin d. roosevelt once said ‘we cannot always build the future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future’ and this must be the premise for today’s debate. to build a better future, a better generation, we must focus on empowering our young people by giving them the tools to face the challenges of today with solutions of tomorrow. with 5.6 million young people under 25 still not in work, it is more than ever essential that we implement measures to help young people have careers, not just jobs. we must raise our youth in a way that makes them aware of how crucial sustainability is, and helps them implement this principle in their day-to-day lives without a second thought. we need generations of eco-warriors and young people with a social conscience to ensure a maintainable, progressive future. we must, above all, address the issues of today, to ensure a better tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of not granting discharge to the council as it has failed once again to cooperate with parliament in addressing a number of important issues highlighted in parliament’s first report. the council should develop detailed anti-corruption guidelines and independent policies within its structures, as well as systematically increasing the transparency of legislative procedures and negotiations. the council continues to fail to provide answers to parliament’s questions, and the difficulties repeatedly encountered in discharge procedures to date have been due to a lack of cooperation on its part.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report which refuses the discharge of the european council and council as i believe that parliament must be provided with the annual activity information of both the european council and the council. the council should seek to answer parliament’s questions on its budget in order to ensure transparency. i support the idea that all institutions must collaborate together, be accountable and ensure transparency in all sectors. all european union institutions must be fully accountable to the citizens, for the funds entrusted to them as european union institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s position not to grant the discharge of the 2014 general budget as the council continues to refuse to provide the parliament their annual activity report and respond to questions from parliament’s budget committee.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with parliament’s interpretation of article 319 of the tfeu, which clearly sees a distinction between the two institutions’ roles. parliament has an institutional power in the treaty to grant discharge. therefore i have voted in favour of the report
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on nanoelectronics following the postponement of this decision due to the court of auditors’ opinion to do so following a lack of information supporting the statement that the implementation of national procedures provided enough assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this discharge as eniac presented fairly to the european court of auditors the necessary accounts in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014. eniac provided the reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of transactions and also provided reasonable assurance with regard to the legality and regularity of the national procedures. this undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key competences of nanoelectronics across different application areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies, which is essential. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to artemis joint undertaking to implement a joint technology initiative embedded computing systems as following the submission of the documents required by the national funding authorities (nfas) it could be confirmed that the implementation of the national procedures provide a reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of their transactions. this information was being disputed by the court of auditors prior to these additional clarifications.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this discharge as the joint undertaking’s accounts for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 were presented fairly, in all material respects, and the results of its operations and cash flows are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission’s accounting officer. artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas to strengthen european union competitiveness and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. i support the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the updated integrated schedule for the iter project for the development of fusion energy is challenging but achievable according to the iter council review group. the project has previously experienced serious delays and cost—overturns, but i believe that the evidence of improved decision making and better understanding of the risks provides a renewed basis of confidence.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this discharge as the joint undertaking’s annual accounts were presented fairly, in all material respects and its financial position together with the results of its operations and its cash flows are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i am positive that the action plan provided by the director of the european joint undertaking for iter identifies further improvements in the undertaking’s own operations in the development of fusion energy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies, which is essential. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, and nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. our group supports the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the battle of mosul is a landmark moment in liberating northern iraq from islamic state occupation, but it is important that we are ready to engage in the aftermath of the battle. the international community needs to ensure the provision of assistance to the region’s most vulnerable inhabitants as well as the future return of millions who have fled, including numerous native minorities. northern iraq is facing a humanitarian disaster, as an overwhelming number of inhabitants of mosul may be forced to flee the battle. the importance of the international community’s role in securing humanitarian assistance on-site cannot be emphasised enough. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union must be a catalyst in promoting peace and security. i support this report as our absolute priority must be that of protecting all civilians and ensuring that their lives are safeguarded from heavy gunfire and bombs. i fully support this report as action needs to be taken and we must use all available mechanisms to help all in need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution, which expresses parliament’s support for the operation to liberate mosul from the forces of the so-called islamic state. whilst the recent reports of civilians being taken hostage to be used as human shields are consistent with tactics used by isis in the past, they are nonetheless horrific and efforts must be taken to limit the loss of life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am concerned that following the coup attempt of 15 july 2016 the turkish police have arrested a substantial number of journalists and writers, most of whom have had no charges brought against them to date. whereas some have been released, the remaining detained journalists have been denied the right of access to a lawyer and are being kept in inhumane conditions and are being threatened and mistreated. restrictions on the media and pressure on journalists were already considerable before the failed coup, but following the attempted coup d’état, this increased exponentially. it is important to highlight that the failed military take-over cannot be used as an excuse for the turkish government to further stifle legitimate and peaceful opposition and to prevent journalists and the media in their peaceful exercise of freedom of expression through disproportionate and illegal actions and measures.
in writing. ‒ the situation of journalists and media freedom has been constantly deteriorating in turkey. already before the attempted coup d’état of 15 july, there remained only a handful of independent media outlets and numerous journalists were imprisoned. freedom of speech and expression is a universal fundamental right and is a fundamental principle of democracy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this cross—party resolution, which discusses the recent coup attempt in turkey but also calls for the release of journalists that are being held without compelling evidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i wanted to expresses my deep concern at the increased nuclear threats with implications for security, stability and predictability at global level, and at the deteriorating relationship with nato, statements indicating an increased readiness to use nuclear weapons, and statements indicating consideration of the potential deployment of nuclear weapons to additional territories in europe by russia. i welcome the inclusion of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (wmd) clauses in the eu’s agreements with third countries and action plans and that such measures must be implemented by all the eu’s partner countries without exception. i welcome regular engagements with these topics via the eu non-proliferation consortium and other civil society organisations and think tanks, and invite the eu non-proliferation consortium to broaden its agenda and include disarmament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this cross-party resolution, which calls for the principle of nuclear non-proliferation to be maintained and reinforced, especially in the current climate of open hostility between nuclear armed states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that it is important to provide a european framework for volunteering actions as a legal framework which identifies a volunteering status and facilitates mobility and recognition of skills. it is beneficial for member states to implement concrete validation processes in the framework of the council recommendation of 2012 to ensure better understanding and comparability of skills and experience in volunteering. member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers to use the recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers. volunteering helps people to gain skills and competences that can facilitate their access to the labour market and they should never be considered or used as replacement labour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it stresses the importance of volunteering and recognises its values and importance. volunteering is an expression of solidarity which promotes and facilitates social inclusion. we need to promote creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, emphasising the need to have a combination of support mechanisms and appropriate structures that strengthen the legal framework, identifying the legal rights and responsibilities for volunteers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the need for volunteers to be given proper legal status and also aided in their efforts to find programmes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the importance of volunteering and recognises its values and importance. volunteering is an expression of solidarity which promotes and facilitates social inclusion. we need to promote creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, emphasising the need to have a combination of support mechanisms and appropriate structures that strengthen the legal framework, identifying the legal rights and responsibilities for volunteers.
in writing. ‒ we need to invest in our youth, in particular at a time when youth unemployment in some countries has reached around 40 % of those unemployed. they are our future, and we are responsible for their future. we need to empower our youth to be more entrepreneurial, have an innovative attitude and invest in lifelong learning in order to help them be the drivers of growth and help address many societal challenges.
in writing. ‒ youth policy is a competence of the member states, while the european union’s role is one of coordination, guidance and support. i am in favour of this report as it identifies the problems that youth face daily. i also support the priorities set out in this youth strategy, as they seek to facilitate the transition from school to the work environment, foster active citizenship while also promoting social inclusion and solidarity. i fully support the idea that young citizens and organisations should be involved in youth policymaking as younger generations are not only the future but also the present and their voice must be heard.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as it highlights the need for youth to take a more active role in policy-making. the current generation have been hard hit by the global economic downturn, and as they are more educated, more mobile and more aware of the world around them than their parents’ generation, we should do our utmost to involve them in the decisions that will affect their lives.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls for young people and youth organisations to be systematically involved in youth policy-making. there is a need to channel investments into inclusive education with regards to ensuring equal access and opportunities for all young people, including those having different socio-economic backgrounds as well as vulnerable and disadvantaged groups such as refugees, migrants and asylum-seekers. we should fight for a better recognition of the learning outcomes of skills acquired through non-formal and informal learning not only because they equip young people with the right set of competences and knowledge, but also because they contribute to the personal development and growth of learners in order to make them proactive, responsible and open-minded citizens. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it calls for an agricultural policy which delivers a more competitive and sustainable european agricultural model based on family-run, diversified and multifunctional holdings and generates fairly paid jobs. this is a very timely resolution which focuses on the changing realities within the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as i believe that the rural development policy should be strengthened and allowed more flexibility to maximise its job creation potential. the report sets out a number of solutions which include support for farmers to branch out into rural tourism, the production of renewable energy, and also organic farming. this report highlights the need to make best use of the cap to counter the downward trend in agricultural and non—agricultural jobs over many decades in rural areas. ensuring basic services and connectivity all help retain people in the countryside and tackle depopulation and decline.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the text that was put to a vote, as it would have limited the union’s ability to gain access to new markets for the union’s agricultural products through free trade agreements.
mr president, i think it is counterproductive to refer to brexit and the trump election as a sign of the times that justifies reconsideration of policies followed on the european semester rules. these rules were defined technically, even when sometimes they were interpreted politically. they helped prevent a recurrence of 2008 but they have not led to a stable, significant and sustainable recovery in europe. they failed technically and this is generating a political backlash. employment remains at historically low levels, economic growth anaemic. investment has not revived in the public and private sectors. the rules embedded in the european semester process are the main contributors to this state of affairs. they were defined in a period when the situation was completely different to the one we are in now. the benchmarks they set no longer fit our circumstances. some of them were anyway set arbitrarily and had no logical or existential justification. the rules themselves were instrumental in driving down public investment. in turn private investment, which piggy-backs on public investment, was negatively affected. what is urgently needed in europe is a recognition that, independently of brexit and trump, the rules set by the stability and growth pact should be revised.
in writing. – i support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine, since it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime, which is international by definition, and would contribute, to enhancing international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s consent for the finalisation of a strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine as i believed this would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of human trafficking and other crimes. this agreement includes the exchange of valuable information which could enable the eu, through its agency europol, and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it enables europol and ukraine to collaborate by exchanging information that is crucial in preventing and tackling crime, including, information on criminal investigation procedures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the agreement because it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime, which is international by definition, and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other relevant criminal matters. this agreement concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of specialist knowledge, general situation reports, and results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, and information on crime-prevention methods, participation in training activities as well as providing advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i support the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, jean-françois jalkh, in connection with a legal action concerning an alleged offence and therefore agree that the report of concerned committee would be communicated immediately to the concerned parties.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of waiving the immunity of jean-françois jalkh as this will give the relevant authorities the opportunity to investigate the case in question and ensure justice is done.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, because i am in agreement with the decision, forwarded on 14 april 2016 by the french minister of justice and liberties, in connection with a judicial inquiry (file no 14142000183) opened against mr jean-françois jalkh at the nanterre regional court in response to an application with joinder filed by the ‘maison des potes – maison de l’égalité’ association on grounds of public incitement to racial or religious discrimination and announced in plenary on 8 june 2016
in writing. ‒ i support the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, jean-françois jalkh, in connection with a legal action concerning an alleged offence and therefore agree that the report of concerned committee would be communicated immediately to the concerned parties.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of waving the immunity of jean-françois jalkh as this will give the relevant authorities the opportunity to investigate the case in question and ensure justice is done
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, because i am in agreement with the decision, forwarded on 14 april 2016 by the french minister of justice and liberties, in connection with a judicial inquiry (file no 1422400530) opened against mr jean-françois jalkh at the paris district court in response to an application with joinder filed by the association ‘national office for vigilance against anti-semitism (bnvca)’ on grounds of public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence and announced in plenary on 8 june 2016.
in writing. – i voted in favour of an agreement reached with the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, it has been verified that all the procedures have been duly completed, and, in agreement with the secretary-general of the council it calls to arrange for its publication. i take note that after an ecj judgement, the pech committee adopted a mandate for the negotiations with the council in april and the file was concluded in a single trilogue in june. the agreement implements principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. given that this agreement was accepted by the pech committee on in july i see no reason to object to it.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the council decided on a number of measures amending a fisheries management plan covering several stocks of cod in european seas. this council-only regulation was annulled by the court of justice. i am in favour of this report as it calls for the need to adopt a new regulation founded on the codecision legal basis to ensure an effective fisheries management plan. the report also notes that in order to ensure a fair and sustainable fishing industry, we must ensure that the fishing community has legal certainty and that a long-term plan for cod stock which is fully in line with the principles of the reformed common fisheries policy is implemented.
in writing. ‒ i approve of this long-term plan because it directs the member states in determining the methods used to calculate annual fishing effort usages that will lead to better cod stock management and increase the stocks’ long-term sustainability.
in writing. ‒ in the long-standing dispute over the ep’s powers as co-legislator in the domain of fisheries policy, the european court of justice supported the ep, stating that multiannual fisheries management plans in their entirety make policy choices which should be decided under the ordinary legislative procedure, i.e. according to article 43(2) tfeu, which is the legal basis in the treaty of lisbon for measures that are necessary for the pursuit of the objectives of the common agricultural and fisheries policies. the report calls on the swift elaboration of a revised cod plan that is fully in line with the principles of the reformed cfp and can enter in force by 1 january 2017 to ensure legal certainty for fishermen, which is essential. that is why i have voted in favour of this report
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which will help to fight money laundering and the large scale secret offshore funds which have hit the headlines in the past year. i am a firm believer that corruption and money laundering must be fought. the purpose of this report is to enable tax authorities to consistently access anti-money laundering information for the performance of their duties in monitoring the proper application of the directive on administrative cooperation by financial institutions. tax authorities of a member state shall automatically exchange the documents and information on anti-money laundering with any other member state.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for political and diplomatic action aimed at eliminating offshore centres at global level. i believe that the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamas leaks revelations are individual manifestations of a global phenomenon which, as stated by the report, have confirmed the paramount need for greater tax transparency and much closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions. mandatory automatic exchange of tax information is recognised internationally as the most effective instrument in the achievement of international tax transparency, and as the eu we need to see that it is implemented diligently. union rules on the prevention and combating of money laundering have over time incorporated changes in international standards, with the aim of strengthening member state coordination and responding to the challenges faced at global level. in this sense, i am increasingly concerned with the interlinking links between money laundering, the funding of terrorism, organised crime and tax evasion and avoidance. time is ripe to see to this.
in writing. ‒ automatic and mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities is a new step forward in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering in the eu. i am favour of this report as it improves tax transparency by enabling tax authorities in the eu to have access to national anti-money-laundering information. this initiative also facilitates the proper application of the directive on administrative cooperation by financial institutions and does not impinge majorly on member state sovereignty in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to tackle corrupt practices and illegal, abusive money laundering. we have seen with the panama papers scandal that we need to come down hard on those unscrupulous individuals who abuse the system to the detriment of the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which gives its green light to a proposal that will allow the exchange of sensitive information concerning money laundering between tax authorities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it provides a balanced assessment of the interplay of monetary polices and structural reforms and the risks of low interest rate policies. its aim is to take stock of the activities of the european system of central banks (escb) and the eurosystem’s monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ factors like the failure to carry out structural reforms and the weakness of internal demand, the huge number of non-performing loans and a still undercapitalised banking sector in some member states, are still fragmenting the euro area financial market, thus reducing room for manoeuvre to support the most fragile economies. as the report states, there are structural and socially-balanced reforms in the economy and the labour market should also take full account of the demographic deficit in europe in order to tackle deflationary pressures and create incentives for a more balanced demographic structure that would make it easier to maintain an inflation target of around 2%.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further need for investments and socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level to stimulate aggregate demand. as the euro area continues to suffer from unemployment, structural reforms are necessary to tackle such a reality. liquidity needs to reach the real economy, we need to invest in smes and make sure that the low interest rates that the banks are benefiting from are translated into more loans. as these aspects are all covered in the report, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb’s annual report for 2015 as the ecb is critical in defending the stability of the euro.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on the european central bank to do more in order to make sure that liquidity reaches the real economy and smes in particular, and to be vigilant that the low interest rates banks are benefiting from are translated into more loans to the real economy.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to address the specific barriers that consumers and firms face in making full use of the single market and ways in which these barriers could be overcome, including by making the best use of new technology. but the report considers that the diverse obstacles, such as contract and consumer protection regimes and different languages and cultures, that hinder the full excess to the single market cannot be overcome solely by means of digitalisation.
in writing. ‒ i consider that unjustified discrimination based on residence, unjustified price differences, and unfair and unjustified geoblocking practices applied to common retail financial products between member states require action hinders progress in this sector. i concord with the ambitions of the rapporteur to breaking down barriers and curbing existing protectionist tendencies that block innovation in retail financial services; whereas a true single market will make the eu attractive as the hub for innovative financial services. i believe that the rapid transformation brought about by digitisation and fintech innovation not only has the potential, if prudently managed, to create new and often better financial products for consumers and to contribute to financial inclusion, including by means of lowering transaction costs and easing access to finance, but also involves key challenges in terms of security, data protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as i believe that in a developing single market and in a digitalised world we also need to identify the specific barriers that consumers and firms face in order to set out ways how to overcome them. we need to ensure good protection of consumers in order to empower them to make informed decisions which are complemented by increased transparency and this is duly noted in the report, as well as a legislative framework which enables equal opportunities to all consumers and access to well-valued products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. this sector is crucial for continued growth in the eu and this green paper will help those dependent on the sector.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the green paper on retail financial services, which emphasises how timely the green paper is, points out that the european union is lagging behind other global financial centres in some areas, and urges the commission to come out with legislative proposals to strengthen the sector. i support such initiatives in the area of financial services and believe in a strong capital markets union. furthermore, this is all the more important in the current context where the united kingdom, as europe’s leading financial services provider centre, is leaving the european union.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i believe that in the current geopolitical context the eu needs to reflect on its defence policy in the long term. the progressive framing of a common european union defence policy as part of the common security and defence policy (csdp), which will lead to an eu common defence when the european council so decides voting unanimously, should be done in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements.
in writing. ‒ the report in question deals with the creation of a european defence union in light of the security situations around europe and the european neighbourhood region. the report however goes into detail about collective military spending, the control of member states’ military assets by other member states, and even goes as far as to call on member states to dedicate a percentage of their gdp to military spending – all aspects i voted against. finally, i abstained on this report as a whole as i believe that any establishment of a european defence union needs to have an opt-out and recognition of national cases of neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because a european defence union will improve europe’s defence in the face of unprecedented security challenges. it is not a question of impinging on states’ neutrality but a matter of facing common challenges together.
in writing. ‒ in the current global geopolitical situation with an increase in security threats in europe and in our neighbouring countries, such as human trafficking, arms trafficking, terrorism attacks and wars, i support the idea of progressing in the direction of a european defence union and eu actions for the creation of good governance structures, respect for rule of law and human rights, and the prevention and fight against radicalisation. i agree that the csdp has a key role to play in conflict prevention as well as in post-conflict capacity and peace building in ensuring a global stable environment. csdp missions and operations can be an integral part of preventive engagement and crisis response mechanisms especially if activated in a timely and effective manner. having said that however, i also disagree with a number of paragraphs in the report, such as putting binding commitments on member states concerning how much they need to spend from their gdp to sustain the increase in the defence industry and on creating a european defence research programme with a total budget of at least 500 million per year. therefore, i abstained at the final report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on roll-call votes on the european defence union report, and voted against the overall report for this reason: malta is a neutral country. its constitution prohibits participation in military alliances and in international cooperative efforts promoting warfare capabilities and exercises, unless backed by the un. the report is based on premises for eu action that contradict this commitment. moreover, i disagree that, at this time especially, the eu should reinforce a military dimension to its character. this move might appear suitable to counter the supposedly disintegrating effects of brexit. it could have the opposite effect. there is no popular constituency for a european union that morphs into a military coalition, funded from eu budgetary resources. again, we see the old ‘business as usual’ methods by which ‘small’ steps ‘forward’ are cumulated and then presented as requiring further integration, failing which disaster would ensue. this is not an acceptable way in which to forge unity in europe. i abstained on all subsidiary roll-call votes because it would not have been coherent to vote one way or the other on different aspects of the issues at hand, while voting against the overall concept.
in writing. – technological developments have once again made waterborne transport an alternative to congested access roads to city centres. whilst waterborne passenger transport and waterborne freight transport face different challenges and have different needs in terms of infrastructure, environmental challenges, operational issues, security and port-city relations the integration of waterborne passenger hubs into european policy on interconnecting infrastructure, as already implemented through eu will provide further european added value. this could be enhanced through the possibilities for loans and guarantees for waterborne projects under the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as a complementary instrument to the traditional grants. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ overcoming seasonality in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island, lake and rural regions is a priority in most of our regions. i agree that smes should be a focal point for the promotion of tourism services and support the call on the commission, the member states and local and regional authorities to make fullest possible use of eu funding opportunities for smes, including subsidies for local communities in the aforementioned outlying regions. we need a proper framework for providing connections with islands, island regions and remote areas which would be promoted with measures to facilitate better-quality ferries and appropriate terminals. by making better use of available capacity of waterborne passenger transport we could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
in writing. ‒ waterborne passenger transport has the potential to provide an alternative to land transport and thus relieves congestion on land. this type of transport can be environmentally and consumer friendly, while also providing services to the increasing tourism industry. in order to have an effective waterborne passenger transport system we need to improve the current infrastructure and support local initiatives. we need to also encourage cleaner fuels to lower co2 emissions. i voted in favour of this report as all these aspects are covered in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because waterborne passenger transport plays a critical role in connecting the european union’s regions and is vital to increased cohesion across europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i believe that waterborne passenger transport can be an environmentally and consumer friendly transport mode, as well as a vital service for tourists and commuters in remote/coastal areas. further measures can be taken to promote this mode of transport, which can have a positive effect on economic development along coastal areas and relieve congestion on land.
in writing. – i agree on the importance of official development aid and sustainable financing for development, while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid and aid-providing agendas. the report calls for a better articulation of the global development architecture and better coordination between all stakeholders, with a strong emphasis on monitoring, transparency, accountability and a shared responsibility for development results.
in writing. ‒ i believe that effectiveness of development funding should be assessed based on concrete results and its contribution to development policy. i agree with the rapporteur that the effectiveness principle, ‘leave no-one behind’, acknowledges the importance of placing a strong focus on poor, vulnerable and marginalised groups. while this principle would correspond to the general philosophy and the overarching commitment of inclusiveness, i firmly believe that the private sector is an important partner in achieving the sdgs and mobilising further resources for development. in this sense private-sector actors must align with development effectiveness principles and abide by the principles of corporate accountability throughout the whole lifecycle of projects. finally, i agree to ensure that companies operating from tax havens do not participate in oda-financed projects.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a central role in providing aid to countries which are experiencing humanitarian or developing crises. as the biggest development aid donor, the union needs to improve the effectiveness of its development tools to ensure more effective development cooperation aid to really and truly have an impact on alleviating poverty. i am in favour of the new mechanisms suggested in this report, as it is high time to develop an effective agenda and for the eu to act as a global actor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, amongst others, it will make eu development aid more efficient with measures to combat corruption, it emphasises the importance of civil society organisations, it increases the complementarity of different aid packages and it also collaborates with the private sector to identify other development resources.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, because i agree that the eu should ensure more effective development cooperation aid if it wants to have a real impact in alleviating poverty in the context of increasing humanitarian and development crises and scarcity of resources.
in writing. – the eu needs a clear information policy. it already disposes of huge soft power. otherwise, why would irregular immigrants and refugees wish to reach its territories to live and find refuge there? the european union is now finding that its presence, policies and achievements are being countered by manipulative propaganda programmes. however, the best way to counter them is not by developing similar mechanisms, even if we wrap them in highly virtuous declarations of intent. even less should they be meant to contain the aims of this or that power, no matter how antagonistic it may seem to have become. this is especially so given the fact that the eu’s soft power is still very effective. what we need is a sober assessment of the current scope and reach of the eu’s soft power, not least in its impact on societies outside the eu, and in whether it is projecting distorted images of the european reality. secondly we need a revamp carried out in good faith of the eu’s information and dissemination policies that projects a no-holds-barred view of the european reality, both for internal and external consumption. this report does not provide adequate basis for such an exercise.
i too would like to welcome this proposal, which naturally ensures that investment in education is one of the objectives of european cohesion policy. and so i think that this should not just consist in reallocating funds from other budget lines such as, for example, the european social fund, because these funds i think should be preserved. it should be noted that the whole procedure of combining different funds to meet the requirements of this recommendation can be difficult and bureaucratic. and so i would like to ask the commission again how it will encourage the member countries to use these different funds and at the same time ensure that the procedure is not too complicated? we are also aware that not all member states have the same resources. and so, yes, the commission can help and should start a process to help the member countries so that they are in a position to use human resources better and so that they can implement this exercise better and successfully. finally, i would like to call on the member countries to work towards implementing this recommendation in the interest of all their citizens.
i would naturally like to thank my colleagues, mr ádám kósa and mrs helga stevens, for this resolution before us. of course provision for professional sign language interpreters must be considered in order to ensure equal access to employment, education and training. new language development and technology can be beneficial for those who use sign language. but this cannot be achieved without specialisation in sign language across the european union, and so we know that there is still a lot to be done at european union level. as the commissioner said, for a long-term successful solution we need to find ways of investing from an early age in our children with disabilities to equip them with the necessary skills to enable them to integrate fully into society and at an academic level. this cannot be done without the participation of all in the preparation of the preliminary work which includes a call for more people to specialise in sign language, and for teachers competent in sign language and also competent in the necessary skills to work effectively in bilingual systems and in inclusive environments in the educational field.
i would also like to begin by thanking julie girling, who i know has not had an easy job, but also our socialist and democrat shadow rapporteur, seb dance, who i know has worked very hard on this legislation. but it is worth noting that, after the european directive we are talking about today, there is a regulation concerning a basic right of every european citizen: the right to breathe clean air! right, which unfortunately we've been taking for granted for too long now. air pollution, as we have heard, knows no distance, no national or european borders. here we have issues with direct health and environmental consequences for all citizens of the european union. so yes, there is a need for immediate action. and while it is positive that air pollution is being given more prominence on the political agenda, also because of the serious implications on public health, unfortunately we still have many member states that are still not meeting the agreed standards. we need more ambition to tackle the present challenges but, despite this, the council seems to lack the necessary ambition. i say we need european governments to act and introduce emission limits to make the results immediate and real. we are talking about the health of our citizens. so governments have to work harder. full compliance is expected from all member states. moreover, cities and even localities most exposed to air pollution must step up their efforts to effectively control these problems and remain in line with the european union's emissions targets. agreeing on the objectives by 2030 is the first step. but we need to keep working to achieve long-term goals. and this is more important now than ever. industry and all economic sectors should follow a more sustainable path. after all, only long-term ambition and long-term emission reduction targets can ensure that our right to clean air is well protected and safeguarded for us and even for future generations.
in fact, in the face of the latest developments in the united states, cop22 has shown the determination of almost two hundred leaders from around the world to make the paris agreement a success. and what happened in marrakesh is another testament to how the paris model of shared governance between governments, cities, regions and private companies is, in fact, working and is strong. but to really succeed, rich and developed countries must honour their promise to provide financial support and assistance to those developing countries that are serious about tackling climate change. leaders from around the world must recognise that tackling climate change is an urgent duty and that the whole world must pull together. the message is clear. if one country thinks it should withdraw from the paris agreement and not honour its obligations, the other countries will increase the pressure. i would like to focus now on the speed of implementation, which has been very inconsistent so far. the real-world change is happening faster than governments are moving in negotiations and the talks in marrakesh have shown that we cannot turn back the clock on the transition to cleaner energy. it is clear that governments need to move, they need to act faster to make the transition sustainable and cost-effective for the benefit of our countries, our economies and our citizens. only in this way can we ensure that we move from words to deeds.
in writing. – i agree with the calendar as proposed and voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament’s calendar of part sessions for 2018.
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution as i believe that this resolution would unnecessarily disrupt and delay the process of implementation of ceta and would be harmful to ceta, as well as eu trade policy as a whole. such a motion for a resolution would also signal to other countries with which the european union intends to negotiate and sign trade agreements with, that the european union is becoming a less open economy and is not a reliable partner to negotiate with.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request to ask for an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) as a european parliament legal service opinion has already been made. my vote is conditional on the decision that parliament will provide more time for a proper analysis of the agreement to ensure that that the european parliament’s various committees, including the environment committee, will be given the opportunity to analyse the agreement and submit their informed opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion to request the opinion of the court of justice of the eu on the canada-eu agreement because it delays the adoption of the agreement unnecessarily. this agreement will boost trade, strengthen economic relations between canada and the eu and spur job growth.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rule 108 on the opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the eu treaties of the proposed ceta agreement does not concern the text of the signed agreement between canada and the eu, but the request to seek an opinion from the european court of justice on the compatibility with the eu law of the provisions of ceta related to investment dispute settlement. as a social democrat, i have always supported clarity about ics, but this interest is already secured and reassured by the legal analysis made by the ep services. moreover, there is already a legal statement of belgium attached to the ceta text that commits belgium to ask the european court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of ics with eu law and in the meantime ics will not be applied. therefore, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the wide debate that went on internationally about comprehensive trade and investment treaties negotiated during past years has given rise to justified queries. is the logic underpinning such treaties politically, economically and socially tenable under conditions of globalisation? no matter what one may think about canada – and i have always been one of its admirers – the same doubts and questionings apply to the comprehensive agreement drafted with it. its acceptance would serve as a precedent and model for the adoption of other comprehensive agreements with other trade blocs. in the circumstances it makes sense to take a step back and see whether the institutional and legal foundations for such a ground breaking exercise really exist. on the other hand it is also true that the process of negotiation is now well advanced. one could reasonably claim that doubts and fears are being expressed at too late a stage. there must be a way, not necessarily the one indicated in this resolution, by which to review whether the agreement with canada could simply serve as curtain raiser to a development by which we will be promoting the oligopolisation of global markets.
in writing. – i voted in favour of for new eu standards to be put in place for cleaner air as from 2020 and 2030. the plan provides for ambitious, but realistic standards. it will continue to drive emission limits further downwards between 2020 and 2030. this is an important step taken by eu legislators in order to continue our work on cleaner air for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the aims put forward in this report should be introduced in a cost-effective manner in line with air quality objectives set in union legislation. i agree therefore with the rapporteur that member states should ensure that impacts on small to medium-sized farms are fully taken into account and these impacts do not entail significant additional costs that cannot be borne by such farms. such should also contribute to the reduction of the health-related costs of air pollution in the union by improving eu citizens’ quality of life as well as to favour the transition to a green economy; given that in europe the total external health-related costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be in the range of eur 330 to 940 billion per year. it is of the essence that member states establish a system of routine and non-routine environmental inspections and market surveillance and public reporting of mobile and stationary sources to ensure that policies and measures are effective in delivering emission reductions under real operating conditions.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year. this is unacceptable. we need to address the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. i am in favour of this report as it seeks to set limits on each member state for five toxic pollutants and thus to reduce national emissions. it is high time that we implement measures that address dangerous pollutants. the european union needs to prioritise our citizens’ health and force governments to act and take responsibility for what they emit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because air pollution has detrimental effects on our health and hazardous emissions should be minimised wherever possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between €300 billion and 900 billion every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed and this report is an important step to address those issues.
in writing. – i voted in favour as i believe that we need to take better account of the specificities of the european banking models, the different models, sizes of the institutions and risk profiles. the methods to measure risks proposed by the basel committee will put a disproportionate strain on european banks. we need to avoid penalising european banks over american banks when implementing the new plans of the basel committee.
in writing. ‒ in order to avoid the repeat of bailouts witnessed during the crisis our banks need to be well capitalised to reduce risks and provide a level playing field globally. a risk-based approach to regulation is also the key, with the same rules being applied to the same risk. the finalisation of basel is a positive step forward in mitigating the differences between jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because this comprehensive set of reforms on banking supervision are necessary to reinforce regulation, oversight and risk management in the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on finalization of basel iii, which has been adopted to state parliament's position on some key issues under discussion by the basel committee (bcbs) that will influence the legislation for the banking sector in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ the security of the eu member states is deeply interconnected, and like the rapporteur i agree that we still reply to common threats and risks in an uncoordinated and fragmented way. in turn this complicates matters and often hampers a more common approach exposing vulnerabilities of the union’s action. like everyone i am concerned that terrorism carried out by radical islamist organisations and individuals is targeting europe on an unprecedented scale, bringing the european way of life under pressure. such requires a proper response from our end through coherence with other external and internal instruments. this can only be achieved through better cooperation and coordination between member states, especially in the field of counter-terrorism. in this sense, i see scope in this report which calls upon the european council to start developing the common security and defence policy into a common defence as provided for in article 42(2) teu to strengthening the eu’s resilience.
in writing. ‒ the developments in the field of csdp were positive. however, in recent years the security situation in and around europe has created unprecedented challenges that need to be tackled by all european member states, as no single country or organisation is able to face them alone. whilst i agree that we need to move to a substantial autonomous defence capacity aiming at protecting citizens and the cores on which the european union is based, it is important that such a move should respect the neutrality of countries like malta.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of this report because this policy is essential to strengthen europe’s security and defence mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the report makes an assessment of the implementation of the csdp and of the developments in this field in the last year. in the current global geopolitical situation with increase of security threats in europe and in our neighbouring countries such as human trafficking, arms trafficking, terrorism attacks and wars, i support the idea of progressing in the direction of a european defence union and eu actions for the creation of good governance structures, the respect for rule of law and human rights, and preventing and combating radicalisation. i agree that the csdp has a key role to play in conflict prevention as well as in post-conflict capacity and peace building in ensuring a global stable environment. csdp missions and operations can be an integral part of preventive engagement and crisis response mechanisms, especially if activated in a timely and effective manner. having said that, however, i also disagree with a number of paragraphs in the report, such as putting binding commitments on member states on how much they need to spend from their gdp to sustain the increase of the defence industry and on substantially financing a european defence research programme from the eu budget. therefore, i abstained on the final report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on roll call votes on the european defence union report, and voted against the overall report for this reason: malta is a neutral country. its constitution prohibits participation in military alliances and in international cooperative efforts promoting warfare capabilities and exercises, unless backed by the un. the report is based on premises for eu action that contradict this commitment. moreover, i disagree that at this time especially, the eu should reinforce a military dimension to its character. this move might appear suitable to counter the supposedly disintegrating effects of brexit; it could have the opposite effect. there is no popular constituency for a european union that morphs into a military coalition, funded from eu budgetary resources. again, we see the old ‘business as usual’ methods by which ‘small’ steps ‘forward’ are cumulated and then presented as requiring further integration, failing which disaster would ensue. this is not an acceptable way by which to forge unity in europe. i abstained on all subsidiary roll call votes because it would not have been coherent to vote one way or the other on different aspects of the issues at hand, while voting against the overall concept.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the eu should consider its strategic communication efforts as a priority to demonstrate how it is a successful model of integration which continues, amid crisis, to attract countries wanting to replicate this model and become part of it. no soft power strategy can succeed without cultural diplomacy and promotion of intercultural dialogue between and within countries, something which, as the report states, should encourage long-term public and cultural diplomacy actions and initiatives, such as scholarships and exchange programmes for students and young professionals, including initiatives to support intercultural dialogue. we should counteract efforts to discredit eu institutions and transatlantic partnerships, which play a recognised role in the european security and economic architecture, in the eyes and minds of eu citizens and of citizens of neighbouring countries. this would indirectly undermine our efforts as europeans to be effective in actions based on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law; one of the most important tools used is incitement of fear and uncertainty in eu citizens. finally, i support the rapporteur in his call to tackle radicalisation and terrorist propaganda though enhanced member states’ and eu cooperation by granting the eu the means to support its own strategic propaganda campaigns.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe that the key to countering messages which encourage anti-europe sentiments is by empowering our citizens with correct, concise information. i believe that to strengthen european relations with the rest of the globe, it is essential to use the tool of diplomacy to ensure mutual agreement on matters which effect the eu and beyond. as technology continues to grow, it is also important that we focus on countering negative messages with positive ones within the framework of growing technology through strategic diplomatic communication and cooperation between the member states and beyond.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because while the eu is committed to respecting fundamental freedoms, including media freedom, the third-party actors currently trying to discredit the union, such as daesh, do not share the same values. they are using the media to spread misinformation and disinformation, thus violating the principle of imparting objective information through journalism.
in writing. ‒ i support the main objectives of the report on the eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties, which identifies threats, such as the terrorist group known as daesh/ isis, and suggests countering the propaganda and radicalisation through cooperation between the member states and the european institutions. having said that, however, the fact that the report is mixing a state such as russia with non-state actors such as terrorist organisations is not exactly the adequate approach for such a text and therefore i decided to abstain at the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur in his emphasis for qualified and professional sign language interpreters. true inclusiveness permits deaf, deafblind and hard-of-hearing citizens to have access to the same information and communication as their peers in the form of sign language interpretation, subtitling, speech-to-text and/or alternative forms of communication, including oral interpreters. early intervention programmes are crucial for children in the development of life skills, including language skills. this motion is positive in the sense that it notes, furthermore, that those programmes should ideally include deaf role models rather than categorise them as stereotypes. in this sense, i support the call for member states to encourage the learning of sign language in the same way as foreign languages. i believe that all persons with disabilities are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. the eu’s multilingualism policy should be enabled further to promote this principle.
in writing. ‒ all citizens, including persons with disabilities, are entitled to dignity, equal treatment, independent living and autonomy. this is why i am in favour of this resolution as it is important to recognise the need for qualified and professional sign language interpreters for deaf and hard-of-hearing people. this service is important and we need to ensure that appropriate remuneration is given to those offering the service. persons with disabilities must have access to the same information and communication as their peers in the form of sign language and this is why we need to make sure that these communication tools are made available at both national and european level, and that those offering the service have the qualifications needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because thanks to professional sign language interpreters there will be greater equality of access to information and discussion for deaf and hard-of-hearing people.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text of the ep resolution, which seeks to improve the situation of sign languages, their access and availability, and strengthen the role of professional sign language interpreters, in order to step up the fight against discrimination based on disability.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the commission is exceeding the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 on the use of the active substance bentazone. i support the precautionary stand by the rapporteur when stating that it is insufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may be expected not to have any harmful effect on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable influence on the environment. the reasoning is based on the precautionary principle, as set out in article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and on that basis i agree with the call on the commission to give priority to requesting and assessing any relevant missing information before taking a decision on approval.
in writing. ‒ whilst acknowledging that bentazone is a post-emergent herbicide used against broadleaved weeds, commonly used for crops in agriculture, and that it can leach under conditions of extreme rainfall due to its high mobility, it is also worth looking at its impacts on the environment and citizens’ health, such as the high potential for direct leaching to groundwater due to its inherent properties, before reauthorising this substance for the maximum 15 years. i voted in favour of the objection because we want to have proper data in hand before actually having this substance reauthorised. it is not a question of banning the substance but a question of making sure this substance doesn’t have negative health implications.
in writing. ‒ it is evident that there is insufficient information on the potential harmful effect on human or animal health amongst others of plant protection products containing the active substance bentazone. i believe that the commission should request and assess any relevant missing information before a decision for approval is taken. i have therefore voted in favour of the objection for the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i agree that the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the approval period should be proportionate to the possible risks inherent in the use of such substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
let me begin by thanking, first and foremost, catherine bearder, and also our colleague, susanne melior, who was the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the socialists and democrats. it is a fact that the international community is currently facing an extraordinary increase in the illegal trade in wildlife, putting at risk the conservation and preservation efforts made in recent decades. there is an increase in global demand for these wild species and their products, with the european union serving as both a central hub and a transit point for trafficking on other continents. and in this context, a set of measures is urgently needed to put the european union in a position to combat illegal trafficking in wildlife and wildlife products. and at present, several wildlife species illegally trafficked are at risk of extinction. this means that the implementation of this plan is crucial and immediate response is necessary. in my view, there are three main aspects that need to be addressed. first, the penalty. we can only send a strong message if we have strict legislation that does not allow the import of protected wild species. secondly, i call on european leaders to address the problem of online sites selling these products, and ensure that they are penalized. and finally, importantly, increased awareness on this subject. it is only through more education and awareness that we can drastically reduce the demand for these products, in the european union and beyond. the european union action plan is there. it is now up to the member states to commit themselves politically and to be part of this action plan. to do so, however, adequate support is needed, both in financial terms and in terms of human resources. and i hope that this report will be just the first step to tackling this organised crime activity seriously.
ombudsman. – mr president, good morning and thank you mr marias and all the shadow rapporteurs for your work on this report. the text before the chamber today expresses strong support for the work of the office of the european ombudsman, for which i am profoundly grateful. i would like to thank in particular the committee on petitions, and its chair, ms wikström, for its engaged cooperation and support over this past year. in our separate but complementary roles, we work directly with european citizens who seek our help. honourable members, this is my third time addressing you in plenary since 2013. each time i have benefited from your expertise, your advice and support and that has fed directly into my work. my office is driven by the complaints we receive and, as today’s report notes, over 22% of complaints concern access to document requests. transparency and the treaty-based right of access to documents must continue to play a crucial role in our eu democracy. the eu does indeed set higher standards than many member states, and given its role and its global reach in many areas, so it should. the juncker commission is, i recognise, working to improve standards in this regard and i welcome the proposal made just yesterday to revise the commissioners’ code of conduct, as both i as ombudsman, and this parliament, have urged. this is a positive step, although i do think that there are other possible future improvements to the code on how this challenging issue is handled. in addition, the juncker commission, through vice—president timmermans, has proposed earlier this year a revised transparency register, which i welcome. many member states do not have a register, while others have been unsuccessful in introducing them. however, a register is only as good as its capacity to give citizens assurance that lawmaking is not being inappropriately or unduly influenced – and so i look forward to seeing the outcome of the negotiations with parliament and council on this commission proposal. much eu lobbying of course focuses either on the permanent representative offices of the member states in brussels, or in the national capitals, and so i hope the member states will reflect on how this can be made more transparent for all european citizens. i am currently working on this issue with my colleagues in the european network of ombudsmen, both to raise awareness of lobbying transparency and to show the very real way in which lobbying directly affects people’s lives. last june, i hosted a network conference in brussels at which we discussed the refugee and migration crisis, lobbying transparency, and the rule of law. i was very pleased that my ombudsman colleagues were able to have engaged and spirited conversations with eu officials, and i believe it was a valuable learning experience for both groups this report recognises the work of my office in several areas in cooperation with the eu administration, and with the support of parliament, to seek and achieve real improvements. these include: transparency and balance of commission expert groups; commission efforts to make the ttip talks more transparent; commission efforts to implement article 16 of the staff regulations; whistleblowing rules to protect eu staff; how fundamental rights are upheld in eu cohesion policy; the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities; and the european citizens’ initiative. i also wish to mention three other areas which i know are of interest to this house. frontex became a particularly critical eu agency in 2015 during the refugee crisis. i welcome its efforts in implementing the special report i sent to parliament concerning a frontex complaints mechanism, but also the recommendations i made in relation to joint return flights. the european central bank has also become a much more familiar institution to eu citizens and i thank it for working with my office and boosting the transparency of its administration as also noted in today’s report. given the heightened citizen awareness of eu institutions and agencies in the wake of the financial crisis, and now of brexit, none of us can work in the shadows or resist citizen demands for greater transparency and accountability. in 2015, i also launched an inquiry into the transparency of the trilogues negotiation process and made several proposals concerning transparency, while respecting the legislators’ need to negotiate in confidence. i thank the three institutions for their good cooperation, and i look forward to their responses next month. today’s report also notes the correspondence we have had with president dijsselbloem in relation to boosting the transparency of the eurogroup. i welcome his focus on that issue, particularly given the increased importance of this group in the lives of citizens within the eurozone. the dutch presidency, which ended this summer, also worked hard to boost transparency in the council. this is an area i will continue to focus on, as it is important for citizens to be able accurately to disentangle, and understand, the separate lines of decision making at eu and member state level. but let me also mention some examples of the everyday cases my office deals with, which assist in improving the experience of the eu for its citizens. a german citizen complained that the commission had not properly explained why it was not investigating his infringement complaint about the e-privacy directive. i found that the commission had not provided sufficient reasoning about why it was not taking action on the issues raised by the complainant, and the commission has agreed to take my analysis into account when it reviews the directive. another important individual case involved a parliament employee, who has a daughter with severe and irreversible brain damage. the employee came to me after parliament’s administration had sought to revoke a derogation it had granted her from having to move from her place of work under mobility rules. happily, parliament agreed to my recommendation to maintain the derogation for as long as the daughter needs her mother’s presence and care. another case concerned the education audiovisual and culture executive agency. a small community group had claimed that the agency had unfairly shortened the deadline for funding applications for town-twinning projects. following my intervention, the agency clarified its actions and the complainant will be able to participate in a future twinning project. before i finish, i wish to note again the high standards of the eu civil service, of the thousands of dedicated people who work in the eu institutions and agencies all over europe. europeans want to see positive change for their families in their daily lives. this is mainly a political challenge, but a strong and ethical public administration is a hallmark of a strong democracy. to recognise the work of eu staff and share best practice across the institutions, i recently launched the award for good administration to acknowledge examples of good service, transparency and ethical behaviour. this award is open to staff in all eu institutions, agencies and bodies and nominees may be proposed by anyone up until the end of january of next year. i welcome of course any nominations from members of this house. honourable members, we live in challenging and even frightening times. we must, however, not be afraid to ‘connect the dots’ in this new wave of citizen unrest manifested in increasing populism and nationalism, and we must examine at a deeper level our political and administrative governance structures in europe. we must also detach our views of the personalities involved in some of these movements from the genuine citizen concerns and distress that sometimes fuel them. the power and responsibility to do that at eu level lies mainly within the hands of this parliament, the commission, and the governments of the member states, and those are onerous and solemn responsibilities. those of us who value and support our pluralist european democracy must now redouble our efforts and demonstrate clearly that we serve the public interest and the public interest alone. thank you again to the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, their staff and the secretariats for all the work on this year’s report. (applause)
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to congratulate mr marias on an excellent report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the work of the european ombudsman in fighting maladministration by eu institutions and bodies is of the utmost importance. our citizens have a right to good administration; they expect and deserve high quality service. it is our joint responsibility to live up to these high standards. i would like to take this opportunity to say that the commission is very pleased with the consistently good cooperation with the ombudsman and her services. we also welcome the recent adoption by the ombudsman of the new implementing provisions governing inquiry procedures. the report puts emphasis on the importance of the ombudsman’s work on transparency as a guarantee of good administration. transparency has been from day one a key priority of this commission, and of me personally, and we have taken important steps in that regard. since december 2014, all bilateral meetings with those who seek to influence our decision-making have been made public. in september this year we proposed to make the new transparency register mandatory, based on a new and binding interinstitutional agreement covering the european parliament, the commission and, for the first time, the council. i would like to underscore all the remarks ms o’reilly made on the need to have the same standards applied everywhere in the eu, including in places where we do not have direct responsibility but which fall under the direct responsibility of our member states. all of us who serve in european public office have a duty to respect the highest standards of integrity and ethics. in the light of recent developments concerning members of the barroso commission, the commission has this week backed president juncker’s intention to revise the code of conduct for commissioners. he will consult the president of parliament, in line with a framework agreement between our two institutions, on proposals to increase the cooling-off period for members of the commission to two years, and for the commission president to three years. i am also pleased that the report acknowledges the commission’s efforts to follow up on the ombudsman’s recommendations in various areas. this includes the publication of numerous ttip documents, the increased information on senior officials leaving the commission to work outside the institutions, the new rules on the composition and functioning of expert groups, and the introduction of a complaints mechanism for fundamental rights in the new european border and coast guard. the commission always takes the ombudsman’s remarks very seriously. we take swift action to address cases of maladministration and comply with her recommendations whenever possible. from time to time there may be cases where the commission and the ombudsman disagree but this only concerns a very limited number of cases. in 2014, the commission’s compliance rate was 86%. let me conclude by stressing that the commission will continue to cooperate fully and loyally with the ombudsman in her inquiries and to build upon the existing very good work relations with the ombudsman and her services.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first vice-president timmermans, ombudsman o’reilly, the report we will be voting on today proves what an essential asset the role of the european ombudsman is for europe and also for the european institutions. as socialists and democrats, we positively welcome the ombudsman’s efforts to ensure greater transparency in her work, and ensuring also the rights of the most vulnerable. the european ombudsman is there to ensure that europe’s institutions maintain the highest standards for all of our citizens and her efforts to remove the shadow of secrecy surrounding the ttip negotiations have proved this. i urge her to be vigilant and to help us in ensuring that citizens will have full information when it comes to all trade agreements, including ceta. this is why i and other colleagues are insisting that the european ombudsman should be given the power to issue a statement of non-compliance should our institutions refuse to release public documents which do not endanger public safety or security or put the privacy and the integrity of individuals at stake. furthermore, we called for the european ombudsman to be further empowered to take decisions, if the need arises. another important measure we are calling for is stronger rules on the protection of whistleblowers, together with legal safeguards at all levels for the individuals involved. it is all about trust. the eu needs to take greater measures to entrust its citizens with the power of information and to allow our citizens to play an active and engaged role in policy making. i believe that in doing so we will be strengthening our societies and i have no doubt that the ombudsman and her office can be at the forefront to ensure such empowerment.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as given the economic difficulties facing jordan, the eu must show support to its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable. i agree that the macro-financial assistance programme is put into effect as soon as possible in order to provide tangible benefit to jordan at this critical juncture. overall, the number of non-jordanian residents has doubled in five years. the vast majority of them are not in camps but in urban areas, which is putting great pressure on jordan’s public services, including health and education. jordan’s debt rose to 93.4% of gdp at the end of 2015. the macro-financial assistance will be provided in the form of loans.
in writing. ‒ jordan is playing an important role by assisting in the refugee crisis and is also a long-standing reliable partner to the eu. i am in favour of the report that makes macro financial assistance (mfa) available to jordan for a total maximum amount of eur 200 million, provided in the form of a medium-term loan, as i believe the eu must support such a valuable partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of macro-financial assistance to jordan because it is one of the countries most directly affected by the war in syria due to its geographical proximity to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because it is important to provide the most effective assistance to jordan as soon as possible, recognising the role they are playing assisting in the refugee crisis and as a long-standing reliable partner to the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i believe that this directive will facilitate the development of new and innovative pension products that aim to guarantee adequate retirement provisions for all. it aims to clarify the procedures enabling institutions to carry out cross-border activity and remove unnecessary obstacles which hinder cross-border activity. it also increases transparency of information to pension scheme members and beneficiaries and improves the supervision of pension funds and lays down new rules for cross-border activities and transfers.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for member states to be equipped with sufficient flexibility to implement and regulate the requirements set out in this directive in a way that reflects the wide variety of pension systems in europe. we need to ensure that our national systems are organised, all in the best interest of members and beneficiaries. i am in favour of minimum harmonisation which does not preclude member states from maintaining or introducing further provisions to protect members and beneficiaries, if such provisions are consistent with member states’ obligations under union law. i believe we need to look more at the human element in such instances whereby institutions would not be treated as purely financial service providers as they serve an important social function due to the central role played by social partners in the running of the institutions. hence a national minimum pension which does not fall below the risk-of-poverty threshold would be in line with this principle. therefore, a recast of this directive under the condition that it has the right focus and does not introduce unnecessary burdens is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ european society is ageing and pension systems across the european union have to adapt in order to ensure sustainable pensions. the report identifies the complexity of the matter and seeks to address the challenges by a closely coordinated action by member states and seeks to ensure safer and more efficient occupational pensions while reinforcing the capacity of the european economy to channel long-term savings to growth-enhancing investment. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because institutions for occupational retirement schemes should be managed safely, transparently and following principles of good governance. retired workers should be able to rest assured that their occupational pension schemes are safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation which aims to improve the protection of members of occupational retirement schemes and will encourage the development of stable cross-border schemes.
in writing. – the situation in syria has deteriorated even further since the ep’s last resolution. relentless efforts need to be made in order to bring the plight of the people in syria to an end, especially in the city of aleppo. i believe that the eu should consider all options to set out consequences for the most heinous human rights violations and abuses by all perpetrators if the atrocities and disrespect of humanitarian law continue.
in writing. ‒ the situation in syria is worsening – and the eu cannot stay silent in the face of such an on-going massacre. i am in favour of this resolution as i believe the eu needs to take a leading role in international efforts for a diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war and push for a stronger political solution. furthermore, the resolution calls for a no-fly zone over aleppo, as the situation within the region has reached a catastrophic level and has led to the deaths of thousands of civilians, including children. for this reason i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the conflict in syria has claimed hundreds of thousands of lives and requires our immediate and urgent attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i am in agreement that the eu should not and cannot stay silent in the face of the ongoing massacre in syria. it needs to act collectively through its high representative and take the lead in the international efforts for a diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a freeze in turkey’s membership talks in protest of the massive crackdown of opponents of the turkish government. i find the disproportionate repressive measures taken in turkey since the failed coup attempt in july 2016 very worrisome. it is important to highlight that a failed military take-over cannot be used as a pretext for the turkish government to further stifle legitimate and peaceful opposition and to prevent journalists and the media in their peaceful exercise of freedom of expression through disproportionate and illegal actions and measures. mr erdoğan’s authoritarianism has been creeping in slowly but surely for some years now, silencing and jailing his critics. surely, by president erdoğan advocating for a referendum on the death penalty is not quite the right signal for future eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am concerned about the ongoing situation in turkey following the military coup that occurred in july of this year. the worsening of the situation of media freedom in turkey and the disproportionate repressive measures being taken by the turkish government mean that the eu should suspend accession negotiations until such violations are addressed. turkey’s partnership with the eu must be encouraged in a way which is mutually beneficial for both parties; however, the eu cannot make any exceptions when it comes to human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because the political situation in turkey is becoming more tenuous with every passing day. there have been disproportionate measures taken by the turkish government in reaction to a coup attempt earlier on this year.
in writing. ‒ the situation of journalists, media freedom and human rights abuses has been constantly deteriorating in turkey. already before the coup d’état attempt of 15 july, there were numerous journalists and political activists imprisoned. turkey is, and will remain, one of our most important partners for the eu. however, the resolution sends a clear message that we want turkey to be anchored to europe and to democracy, but if nothing happens to restore the rule of law and human rights, than the eu should continue its dialogue with turkey while temporary freezing the accession talks. i support this approach and therefore i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. – i join the other meps in calling on all eu member states to ratify the istanbul convention, which is a binding convention to fight sexual violence against women. violence against women van never be justified. too often, violence against women is tolerated and it is our responsibility to act in order to combat violence against women. too many innocent lives and their families are scared or lost as a result of such violence. to fight against this scourge, the european commission proposed in march 2016 the eu’s accession, within its competences and alongside the member states, to the istanbul convention. it requires amongst others for parties to improve the protection of victims of violence and ensure the prosecution of offenders in several respects such as criminalising violence against women (psychological or physical) and empower the police to remove a perpetrator of domestic violence from the home.
in writing. ‒ 45% of all women in europe have been subject to and suffered from gender-based violence. it is estimated that the total cost of domestic violence within the 28 member states could be as high as eur 16 billion. these percentages and figures are a wake-up call to all member states that they need to ratify the istanbul convention. i am in favour of this resolution, which calls for the first legally binding instrument in europe on violence against women as a serious violation of human rights to be ratified in all signatory countries. we need to act on this silent suffering now and stop all violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion calling for eu accession to the istanbul convention because women who have fallen victim to violent acts must have access to better protection across europe. one in every three women in the eu has experienced the trauma of physical or sexual violence, or both. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women is the first legally binding instrument in europe on violence against women and in terms of scope it is the most far reaching international treaty to tackle violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. three years after its opening for signatures in 2011, the istanbul convention was entered into force on 1 august 2014. today, all eu ms have signed the convention, but only 14 have ratified it. therefore, i have voted in favour of this important report, which calls on member states to ratify the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ it is crucial to achieve good administration and ensure the credibility of political and technical decision-making. for this purpose, i consider that particular attention needs to be paid at eu level, on the basis of high standards and concrete measures that leave no doubt regarding any conflict of interest in appointing candidates for positions in the union’s institutions, agencies and bodies. efforts to make lobbying more transparent are welcome; however, i regret the commission’s reluctance to publish detailed information on meetings with tobacco lobbyists and urge the commission to make its workings fully transparent so that the public acquires more trust in its work.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it recognises and endorses the work of the european ombudsman, emily o’reilly, for 2015. the report encourages the empowerment of the european ombudsman when it comes to matters of transparency and calls upon the commission to empower the ombudsman with the ability to issue a statement of non-compliance should an institution refuse to release public documents that do not endanger public safety or security or put the privacy and integrity of individuals at stake. the report also encourages the european ombudsman to ensure that europe’s institutions maintain the highest standards for our citizens and commends her efforts to introduce more transparency in the ttip negotiations following concerns from citizens. finally, the report also encourages her to do the same when it comes to ceta, to ensure that citizens are informed of the decisions being taken in their name.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it clearly outlines the vital work carried out by ombudsman emily o’reilly throughout 2015. the european ombudsman is essential to combatting maladministration within the eu and upholding the rule of law and principles of good administration within the european institutions and respecting fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i fully endorse the great work of european ombudsman emily o'reilly for 2015.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i welcome in principle the commission’s intention to propose a definitive vat system by 2017 that is simple, fair, robust, efficient and less susceptible to fraud. although ambitious, i believe it will aid the proper functioning of the digital single market and enhance cross-border trading.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the commission should propose amendments to the vat directive with a view to enabling a technologically neutral application of vat rules that will ensure that the physical and digital versions of a given product are treated in the same way for e-commerce sales. the lack of harmonisation in the vat threshold entails high transaction costs for smes operating in e-commerce activities and needs to be addressed. i favour greater transparency allowing for proper scrutiny, and the adoption of a more structured and ‘risk-based’ approach, since such are key to detect and prevent fraud schemes and corruption. i regret that administrative cooperation among member states in fighting vat fraud is still not efficient when it comes to coping with intra-eu vat evasion and fraud mechanisms, or to managing cross-border transactions or trading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it focuses on the creation of measures to simplify vat, encourage trade and enhance the fight against vat fraud. furthermore, it looks towards measures which are simple, fair, robust, efficient and less susceptible to fraud while also recognising that it is the responsibility of the tax authorities in the various individual member states to ensure that vat is paid in a proper and simple way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it prioritises the reduction of vat fraud. it is estimated that fraud is the reason for a ‘vat gap’ of around eur 170 billion annually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards a definite vat system and fighting vat fraud’, because the report simply aims to put forward proposals to improve the vat collection system, eradicate vat fraud and reduce red tape. it furthermore aims to simplify business operations for smes and most importantly, highlights the need for harmonisation at the eu level regarding taxation policies. having said that however, i do have some reservation on certain paragraphs, which are going out of the scope of this report and are not even envisaged in the vat action plan.
in writing. – i agree that the protection of wild flora and fauna is of paramount importance and by regulating trade in them significant progress can be made. we need to also resist trophy hunting as it contributed to large-scale decline in endangered species and urge the commission and the member states to establish a precautionary approach for the import of hunting trophies from species protected under the eu wildlife trade regulations. i also call for the immediate ban at european level of trading in ivory and for the establishment of a mechanism to assess the need for similar restrictions for endangered species.
in writing. ‒ we need to acknowledge that wildlife trade has become a billion-euro criminal industry dominated by organised criminal groups. the risk of detection is low and the financial reward is high, attracting criminal gangs to exploit illegally caught and removed wildlife to fund their criminal activity. as the report clearly highlights, the identification and allocation of appropriate financial and human resources is essential for the implementation of the action plan. it underlines the need to provide adequate financial resources in the eu budget and the national budgets to ensure effective implementation of this plan, which are realistic and enforceable. the links between wildlife crime and other forms of organised crime, including money laundering and the financing of militias and terrorist groups, are a reality. for this reason, i consider international cooperation for the combating of illicit financial flows to be a priority and appropriate decisions need to be taken on aid for prevention activities and the investigation of irregularities in the supply chain when tackling wildlife trafficking, for example suspicious shipments and financial transactions.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the eu and each member state to address wildlife crime with the greatest political urgency and highlights the need for comprehensive and coordinated approaches across policy areas. wildlife trafficking is worth an estimated €20 billion annually, which makes it one of the biggest and most profitable forms of organised cross-border crime. we require regular monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, stronger and better structured cooperation among member states, tackling the potential illegal activities on internet, and eu support to third countries in fighting wildlife trafficking. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. wildlife trafficking is contributing to the steady decline of animal populations across the globe and to the endangerment and extinction of some species.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on the eu and member states to have a shared responsibility to step up to the challenge of halting the rapid decline in some of the world's more valuable and cherished species. in doing so, we will be preserving our rich biodiversity for future generations, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that time is ripe for the commission to present a road map on connected cars, and to analyse the potential effects that the widespread use of this technology could have on the european transport sector. one of the big challenges for the future is to create a positive business environment for entrepreneurs in the collaborative economy. the proposed measures/recommendations need to help attain a level playing field, reduce bureaucratic burdens, ensure sufficient workers and consumer rights whilst at the same time laying the foundations for enterprises to take advantage of all available opportunities to grow.
in writing. ‒ sustainable development and the revolution in the field of information and communication technology have created unprecedented opportunities and challenges for firms of all sizes in terms of responding to the increasing demand for sustainable mobility within the constraints of limited infrastructure. this is a reality and we need to combat anti-competitive practices by large integrated groups to tackle discrimination and market access restrictions. i agree with the rapporteur who calls for integrated and coordinated european mobility system as the best way of properly integrating all companies offering all modes of transport into a common dynamic process in which digitisation and promoting innovation from within the transport sector is most effective method of ensuring that customers have a single coherent system and that professionals are best placed to add value. consumer expectations seek easily accessible, convenient and flexible ways to use transport services while prices are maintained reasonable.
in writing. ‒ the transport sector faces many challenges and possibilities in the emergence of the collaborative economy. a coherent european approach is needed to support the emergence of new business models and smes and to provide services with and alongside existing operators on the market. i am in favour of this own-initiative report which identifies both the challenges and opportunities for small businesses in the transport sector while also encouraging the completion of a single european transport area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. transport-related businesses are crucial for eu cohesion and keeping citizens connected and ensuring the eu economy grows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new opportunities for small transport businesses, which analyses challenges and opportunities for small businesses in the transport sector, particularly in the context of the collaborative economy and new business models. the growth of the digital economy and emergence of platforms is changing the way small transport businesses operate, and is challenging the existing operators. collaborative economy is a new model of economic activity empowering consumers to capitalise on their own property and skills and providing a new range of opportunities for micro-entrepreneurship. this makes it difficult to establish sometimes who is the consumer, who is the employer and the employee, and who is the entrepreneur and the business. therefore, we need to look very closely at the dynamics of change so as not to stifle economic benefits emerging from these new economic models, whilst at the same time safeguarding existing employment rights, high quality working conditions and social welfare schemes, and ensure that a real level playing field in the single market is maintained.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it calls upon belarus to set up its game in assuring human rights, while also noting the improvements made on freedom of speech and freedom of the media. the resolution calls for the government of belarus to abolish the death penalty, and reminds belarus that accession to the eu cannot be considered with the death penalty in place as it goes against the eu’s charter of fundamental rights. the resolution encourages belarus to tackle these issues and more, and for this reason i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. fundamental freedoms and political rights in belarus remain undermined, while opposition and political dissent continues to be stifled. it is unacceptable that these conditions persist.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is important that parliament remains attentive and is closely following the latest evolutions in belarus, after two election years (presidential in 2015, parliamentary in 2016) in what has been called ‘the last dictatorship in europe’.
member of the commission. – thank you for organising this important debate and thank you to all who spoke. can i just for one moment join ms bearder and ms dodds who recalled the tragic murder of jo cox, a member of the british parliament, and can i just salute her memory and her work promoting tolerance and inclusion. as a number have said – mr moraes, ms guillaume, ms hohlmeier amongst others – we are bound together by our values. one of those values, a key value for me and for us all, is freedom of expression. we are not talking here about limiting freedom of expression. we’re talking about incitement to violence or hatred, which is a crime. again, of course, we should have respect for the achievements of previous generations, our histories and our cultures. but we also need to be conscious of the lessons of history, the tendencies to intolerance, prejudice and fear, and those we must combat through promotion of tolerance and inclusion. and we need to work altogether, and with our member states, to pursue that. there have been a number of questions about what the commission is doing with member states, so i’ll answer that. in the course of the last year the commission has initiated bilateral dialogue with 24 member states with a view to ensuring full and correct transposition and implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia that we’re discussing today. in the course of those discussions, i’m glad to say, positive progress has been reported in a number of member states. but there remains more to be done, as i said at the start of this debate. the commission has begun pre-infringement proceedings against a number of member states where there are still substantive gaps in their implementation of this framework decision. we’re going to continue to engage in a constructive discussion, obviously, with national authorities in line with the principle of sincere cooperation, but the commission will not hesitate to use its power to launch infringement proceedings where these efforts prove unsuccessful. because – as i said at the beginning, and as has been echoed throughout this debate – we are determined to ensure that everyone is able to enjoy their fundamental rights because we are all entitled to the respect of our rights to non-discrimination, to human dignity, to life, to integrity of the person and to protection from violence.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to make two points in conclusion. first, mr moraes and ms lambert referred to the proposal for a horizontal equal treatment directive. as you know, the discussions in the council are very complex due to the proposal’s intricacies and the requirement for unanimity. nevertheless, the slovak presidency has worked hard since the start of its term and our intention is to present a progress report which we will submit to the council on 8 december. secondly – and more importantly in my view – i would like to repeat what i said at the beginning, namely that hate crimes, racism and discrimination have no place in our societies and we have to fight them with resolve. i believe the problem that we have been discussing here this morning has two dimensions. on the one hand, we have a legal framework at eu level, the charter of fundamental rights framework decision, and member states of course have clear commitments that need to be implemented. but the second dimension of this is that i do not think we can be successful in fighting xenophobia and anti-semitism successfully unless we mobilise our citizens to actively stand against those who are spreading hatred in europe. to mobilize our citizens means, of course, raising awareness and showing courage – a civic courage – in protecting those who are victims of acts which we all know are clearly against the values we all share. i also believe that we have to bear this civic dimension in mind as well and not only focus on the role of institutions when we want to fight against these phenomena that clearly undermine our democratic societies.
in writing. – hate speech is anything but free. it a tool of oppression, of dehumanisation – and this allowed homophobic rhetoric has led to the categorical murder, including suicide, of thousands. homophobia tries to perpetuate the idea that you are less human than others based on aspects such as who you love, rather than how you love. europe has a problem with hate. and many may say, these are empty calls for action, but how can you say that when this year alone 295 europeans were murdered because they were trans or gender-diverse? we still live in a europe where being queer is sometimes still an act of bravery, and thousands of young europeans are still terrified to live. they experience violence on public transportation, in our schools, in bathrooms, at the gym and more. citizens do not deserve a europe where they must hide themselves to feel safe. this is why i wholeheartedly support, welcome and thank the maltese presidency, which has pledged to bring the equality directive, currently blocked in council, to the fore during its upcoming presidency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical amendment to correct the much needed legal gap to amend article 136 of the union customs code (ucc) by re-establishing the obligation to present goods which have been brought into the customs union at the second eu point of entry under certain circumstances. the amendment will clarify the legal situation as regards customs supervision of goods where they enter the union through one seaport or airport but continue their way on the container to the second port in the union where they are unloaded.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text. there are shortcomings in its drafting which need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal to amend article 136 as it aims to close the gap and ensure equal treatment of goods while providing the legal basis which was already established through the old customs code. i believe that in the absence of a clear legal basis, customs authorities will not be able to correctly levy import duty and other charges, correctly apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls and identify risks on goods arriving in their ports or airports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to reinforce existing legislation on customs by giving the relevant customs authorities in member states what they legally require to carry out their inspections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the proposal was a much needed amendment to address an anomaly of the same union customs code. the proposal changes one article of the union customs code that has proved to be problematic in practice and concerns goods which have temporarily left the european union’s territory by sea or air. the union customs code has been improved to better meet the needs of customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for a deferral of the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014. a deferral of twelve months will give additional time for those concerned to adhere to the new requirements found in the new proposal. in the light of the exceptional circumstances, it is appropriate and justified for regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to be amended accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the commission should refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text. in this sense, i expect a better draft on how we will be enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) introduces a key information document covering not only collective investment schemes but also other ‘packaged’ investment products offered by banks or insurance companies. i am in favour of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which clarifies the date of application of previous legislation on such products and is very useful for the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical proposal to postpone the date of implementation to 1 january 2018 in order to allow a level 2 legislation on the key information document in order to be adopted with stronger protection clauses for investors.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of kiribati, which has already been negotiated between the republic of kiribati and the european commission. this would facilitate the issue of short-stay visas and also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. there are positive effects by simplifying travel for business people, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. this visa waiver agreement will have a rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific and will enable citizens not only to derive full and tangible benefit from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the short-stay waiver is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and the states. the visa waiver may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in kiribati.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this short-stay visa waiver because it bolsters tourism and facilitates business between kiribati and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas, which simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this agreement, which will facilitate the issue of short-stay visas and also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for short periods of time. the agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. while european union trade relations with the solomon islands are very limited, they have potential for development. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the solomon islands. the visa waiver agreement reaffirms the european union’s commitment to strengthening partnership with that country.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. i appeal, however, for caution, as the rapporteur does, since this practice is liable to reduce parliament’s room for manoeuvre and is problematic because parliament is not fully informed about the progress of bilateral negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the signing of the short—stay waiver, as it steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue. the visa waiver agreement is further evidence of our commitment to the region, with a view to a strengthened partnership, and may boost economic investment in the area and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in the solomon islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it helps to open up new markets for the tourism industry and it facilitates business links between the eu and the solomon islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas, which simultaneously represents a concrete outcome on the deepening relations between the european union and solomon islands – which is highly significant politically in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas, which simultaneously represents a concrete outcome for the relations developing between the european union and the federated states of micronesia – highly significant politically in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism and will make for rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific. this visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced economic and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the short stay waiver is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and the states. the visa waiver agreement may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in the federated states of micronesia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement. such short-stay visa waiver programmes are indispensable to increase opportunities for the tourism industry for both partners and to enable business between the eu and the federated states of micronesia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas, which simultaneously represents a concrete outcome on the deepening relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia – which is highly significant politically in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogues on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. tuvalu’s economy is primarily based on services (more than 60% of gdp). tourism is relatively limited. it remains dependent on international development assistance, and there are still major economic disparities between the islands in the archipelago. the eu is currently negotiating comprehensive economic partnership agreements with 14 pacific countries, including tuvalu. the agreement also constitutes a positive sign of support for the country, allowing us to pursue a balanced, regular and in-depth political dialogue on these issues, which remain priorities for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i agree we should step up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. as the rapporteur puts it, this visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism – something which will furthermore encourage direct contacts between european citizens and tuvaluans. the visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full and tangible benefit from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the short-stay waiver agreement is significant for the eu and the state in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and the states concerned. the agreement would allow citizens of tuvalu 90-day short-stay waiver visa exemptions for both business and leisure travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this short-stay visa waiver agreement, which is important for the tourism industry for both partners and for opening up new markets for business in the eu and in tuvalu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas that simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and tuvalu - which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of marshall islands – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. the republic of marshall islands has few natural resources and imports far exceed exports. the us is by far the largest contributor to the national budget under a compact of free association. while eu trade relations with the republic of marshall islands are very limited, they have potential for development, including through the eventual signing of a comprehensive economic partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i agree that the visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. this visa waiver agreement will have spill-over benefits on the rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific. the visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full benefit from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the short—stay waivers steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue and is further evidence of our commitment to the region, with a view to a strengthened partnership. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it boosts tourism while also providing new opportunities for the tourism industry and increasing business prospects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas that simultaneously represents a concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which analyses the 2014 eu social fund (eusf) annual report by the european commission. it focuses on the effects of the 2014 eusf reform on the process of the mobilisation of assistance and it also formulates some recommendations for a future possible reform, which should take into consideration the possibility of redefining regional natural disasters, allowing for a single application to be submitted jointly by several eligible states at cross-border level, as well as examining the indirect damage when assessing the application.
in writing. ‒ it is towards a very useful purpose that we have mobilised, in total, eur 3.8 billion in connection with more than 70 disasters within 24 beneficiary states and accession countries. the circumstances leading to this embraced a wide range of natural phenomena, such as earthquakes, flooding, forest fires, storms and, more recently, drought; the eusf remains one of the eu’s strongest symbols of solidarity in times of need. i agree with the rapporteur that may contribute to the grievances of these families through a faster mobilisation of funds so that the real needs on the ground may be met. we need to shorten deadlines for the processing of applications from six to four weeks and encourage effective cooperation between authorities at national level and regional and local levels.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of an eu solidarity fund which has simplified procedures to ensure rapid response within six weeks of application, the introduction of an advanced payment of 10% upon application and improvements in the assessment phase, better communication while optimising the use of eu funding and transparency. the eu solidarity fund was set up as an answer to disastrous flooding in central europe (2012) as an instrument for major natural disasters and to demonstrate solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eu solidarity fund is an indispensable instrument in providing emergency relief to countries affected by major national disasters quickly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which addresses several aspects of the management of the european union solidarity fund (eusf). it focuses on the response time of the eusf and the need for a prevention policy, which goes hand in hand with the necessary complementarity between the eusf and other european instruments, in particular cohesion policy. it is essential to emphasise effective cooperation between authorities at national level and regional and local levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against asking the european court of justice for an opinion on compatibilities with the treaties with regards to the eu-us umbrella agreement as it is essential that the eu and us implement this decision as soon as possible in order to ensure and safeguard the digital rights and data protection of european citizens. currently, bilateral agreements with inadequate data protection standards exist, and thus the implementation of the umbrella agreement will help to protect citizens further.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the agreement is sufficiently clear and correct in its legal basis and does not require further confirmation of this from the court of justice, which will merely delay its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this agreement as it aims to establish a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us and thus the agreement constitutes major progress for the protection of personal data when transferred between the eu and the us in the context of law enforcement activities. the current bilateral agreements in place do not have the same level of data protection safeguards as this agreement, therefore it is necessary to ensure citizen’s digital rights are secured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it guarantees a high level of protection of the fundamental right to personal data and improves the eu’s cooperation with the united states in the field of law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the agreement, which aims to establish a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us. the agreement does not itself provide a legal basis for such transfers, but supplements, where necessary, data protection safeguards in existing and future data transfer agreements or national provisions authorising such transfers. this agreement will be in force for an indefinite period.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the consent for this interim agreement which would open the door to its provisional application. the deal ensures a contractual safety net, warranting duty-free access to the eu market until the regional agreement comes into fruition we should seek fostering regional economic integration and investment, whereby in 2015, the total two-way trade between ghana and the eu was worth 5.4 billion euros, comprising over 20% of ghana’s external trade with the eu becoming a prime destination for ghana’s ‘non-traditional’ exports, demonstrating an increasing diversification and value-addition in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-ghana agreement following recommendations from the european parliament’s inta committee and a unanimous vote in the parliament of the republic of ghana. i believe that this signal from ghana’s elected representatives shows that the agreement is welcomed by the republic of ghana and therefore believe that this decision should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides a stable framework to help increase the two-way flow of trade and investment between the eu and ghana.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the eu-ghana stepping stone economic partnership agreement because i agree that we must have guarantees in place to ensure that working conditions and sustainable development practices in such sectors complement our long standing calls for policy coherence for development. therefore, it is important to push for strong and effective sustainable development chapters, which we want to see included in any type of epa.
in writing. ‒ i agree to mobilise the contingency margin to address the needs stemming from the migration, refugee and security crisis, by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget for the financial year 2016, above the commitment ceiling in question.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it considers that additional financial needs are likely to arise in 2017 in relation to the internal security crises and the current humanitarian, migratory and refugee challenges and thus acknowledges that these needs could significantly exceed the funding available.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the contingency margin for 2016 shall be tapped into to provide some eur 240 million in commitment appropriations beyond the commitment limit stipulated in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, because i agree that given the absence of any margin in commitments under security and citizenship (heading 3) in 2016, draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 requires the mobilisation of the contingency margin for + eur 240,1 million with a full offsetting in 2016 against the unallocated margin of administration (heading 5). an agreement on the contingency margin was reached in the framework of the 2017 eu budget conciliation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it grants the union additional funds in order to adequately tackle the latest developments on migration and security within the european union. the increase of the instrument for emergency support can help member states dealing with the increased inflows of arrivals in the union, and thus acts as a support measure to member states which are most effected by the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is necessary to update eu commitment appropriations on migration and security.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016, which will decrease in the level of payment appropriations by eur 7.3 billion due to under implementation. this money will go back to member states. dab 4/2016 also includes among others a reinforcement by +eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations for security and citizenship (heading 3) and a frontloading of the staffing for the new european border and coast guard regulation. an agreement on this amending budget was reached in the framework of the budget conciliation on 2017 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the own resources system of the union must ensure adequate resources for the orderly development of the policies of the union, subject to the need for strict budgetary discipline. furthermore, the development of the own resources system is also important and this should also contribute to wider budgetary consolidation efforts undertaken in member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this decision specifies the rules on the eu’s allocation of its own resources to guarantee the financing of the eu’s annual budget.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2016 on the implementation of the new own resources decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom (ord 2014), following the completion of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. this dab has no effect on the overall revenue nor expenditure side of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it grants financial assistance to germany following the series of extremely intense, short-lived cases of flooding/flash floods that caused destruction to public and private infrastructure, private homes and agriculture in lower bavaria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in may and june 2016, parts of lower bavaria were severely affected by floods and the eu solidarity fund is indispensable for member states to be able to finance repair works in such situations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because it is essential to have a swift approval of the proposal in sign of solidarity with the affected german regions. the mobilisation of eur 31 475 125 will help the german region of lower bavaria, affected by floods in may and june 2016. the total direct damage caused by the disaster was estimated at eur 1.26 billion by the german authorities.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to floods that occurred in germany in may and june 2016. these had serious repercussions for the living conditions of those concerned and we are duty bound to give the devoted attention and quickly.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft amending budget no 6 to the general budget 2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany as it seeks to amend the 2016 budget and increase the assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it ensures the disbursement of funds to germany to deal with the ramifications of severe flooding that affected lower bavaria last spring.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by natural disasters. the proposed mobilisation requires an amendment to the 2016 budget and a draft amending budget (no 6/2016), aiming at increasing budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy’ by eur 31 475 125 both in commitment and in payment appropriations. therefore, i have voted in favour of the report, which proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in germany (floods affecting lower bavaria, especially the district of rottal-inn) which occurred in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i agree we should mobilise the contingency margin for an amount of eur 1 164.4 million so as to complement the commitment appropriations related to the expenditure in question pertaining to the financial year 2017, over and above the commitment ceiling of eur 2 578 million in current prices. additional financial needs are likely to arise in 2017, in relation to internal security crises and the current humanitarian, migratory and refugee challenges. we need to respond to the additional funding needs arising from the security crisis and the migratory and humanitarian challenges in the union in a human way.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this amendment which mobilises the contingency margin for 2016 for an amount of eur 240.1 million in order to complement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure under security and citizenship in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. mobilising the contingency margin for 2017 is important to react to unforeseen circumstances as a tool of last resort.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which acknowledges the mobilisation of the contingency margin, which is mobilised at a level of eur 1 906.2 million for security and citizenship and global europe. the decision on the mobilisation of the contingency margin presented by the commission together with the 2017 eu draft budget, and updated by amending letter no 1/2016, has to be aligned with the agreement reached in conciliation on the 2017 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of adequate financing of urgent measures in the field of migration, refugees and security. current events have proven that the european union needs to be flexible in order to address imminent issues and circumstances which require urgent action. it is crucially important for the union budget to be more flexible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the extent of the ongoing migration, refugee and security crises is unprecedented. the eu’s measures to resolve them must be backed by adequate financing.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis, since i am in agreement.
in writing. ‒ we want a union which would be able to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and not just to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe. the fund can provide financial aid to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations in the event of a ‘major natural disaster’, however, we need to speed up the disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of an advance before the final award decision has been taken. this should enhance the fund’s effectiveness, keeping of course the amount of the advance reasonable, meaning it would not exceed 10% of the financial contribution in our budget.
in writing. ‒ eusf has been a significant source of funding for local and regional governments in alleviating the consequences of natural disasters occurring across europe from floods to earthquakes and forest fires. i agree that the eu solidarity fund needs to provide for payment of advances in the 2017 budget. efforts to invest in climate change mitigation and adaptation must be stepped up. however, i call for the maximum transparency in the awarding, management and implementation of the eusf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eu solidarity fund is in place to assist member states in responding to emergency situations related to natural disasters, and advance payments enable the fund to be mobilised rapidly and, crucially, when it is needed.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which highlights that an advance can be granted at the request of a member state and following a preliminary assessment of the relevant eusf application by the commission. the proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) to enable a timely and efficient reaction in the event of a disaster occurring next year.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the overall level of commitment appropriations in the 2017 budget as well as the overall level of payment appropriations. reducing youth unemployment remains a high and shared political priority, and to this end i reaffirm that we should be determined to make the best possible use of budgetary resources available to tackle it, in particular through the youth employment initiative. i expect an orderly progression of payments in relation to the appropriations for commitments so as to avoid any abnormal level of unpaid invoices at year-end. in this sense, i agree that the commission should continue monitoring closely and actively the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes, inviting the commission to present in a timely manner updated figures concerning the state of implementation and estimates regarding payment appropriations requirements in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it recognises the need for a higher budget allocation to be able to tackle new realities. thus the 3.8% addition to the budget when compared with the 2016 allocation is a positive step in order for the european parliament to have the financial tools needed to keep working effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concludes the budgetary procedure for 2017 and confirms that the commitment will stand at eur 157.8 billion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the 2017 budgetary procedure since i am in agreement with the joint text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in response to the devastating earthquakes that hit central italy between august and october 2016. this resulted in flattening of entire villages, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, ruined historical and cultural heritage, damaged economic activities, especially those of smes, agriculture, the landscape and the potential of the tourism and hospitality industries, a large number of displaced persons, and various indirect forms of damage in the surrounding areas. i believe that in light of this exceptional and very serious situation, the commission should consider having sustainable reconstruction and any anti-seismic investments excluded from the calculation of national deficits in the framework of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ in the recent italian earthquake disaster more than 400 people were reported to have been injured and 290 to have died. devastating earthquakes could accumulate in a ‘domino effect’ and lead to 100 000 displaced residents. this requires us to create synergies between all available instruments, in order to ensure that resources are used effectively for reconstruction activities and all other necessary interventions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities. i agree on the importance of the european union civil protection mechanism in fostering cooperation among national civil protection authorities across europe in adverse situations and in minimising the effects of exceptional occurrences. we should keep up our efforts to further simplify the procedures for the activation of the mechanism to make it available rapidly and effectively in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. i express my deepest solidarity and empathy with all the individuals affected by the earthquakes and their families, and with the italian national, regional and local authorities involved in relief efforts following the disaster.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution which looks upon the devastating earthquakes that hit central italy in 2016 and concludes that more efforts are needed in order to tackle the eu law restrictions on budgets and state aids in situations like these. the report also highlights how it is practically impossible for earthquake-prone member states to pursue proper programmes of investment in reconstruction work and earthquake prevention and to provide support for the economic activities affected unless they cut services or resources already earmarked for existing structural investment plans, and this must be tackled.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution. it is an important show of solidarity with our neighbours in italy after the series of earthquakes that struck the country. the eu solidarity fund further affirms the eu’s commitment to support citizens in difficult situations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which highlights the prediction problems associated with earthquake systems and the high seismicity of the mediterranean area and south east europe. the report calls on member states to speed up research with a view to preventing damage, managing crises and minimising the scale of the impact of disasters in conjunction with actions under horizon 2020, and notes with concern that thousands of people have died and hundreds of thousands have been left homeless in the past 15 years as a result of destructive earthquakes affecting europe. the report stresses the importance of the european union civil protection mechanism in fostering cooperation among national civil protection authorities across europe in adverse situations and in minimising the effects of exceptional occurrences.
in writing. ‒ good governance entails the strengthening of ethics and transparency within the eu institutions in order to improve european citizens’ trust in our institutions, particularly in the light of the ampler political mandate entrusted to the commission since the lisbon treaty. unfortunately, the 2011 code of conduct failed to address all the recommendations that commissioners should be required to declare all their financial interests or assets and not only those interests or assets ‘which might create a conflict of interest in the performance of their duties’. as such there is no requirement to declare debts and liabilities, and dependent children are not required to produce the same information as spouses. this requires us to modify the code of conduct for commissioners and look into other sensitive situations such as for example the post-office employment restriction and eligibility for a transitional allowance.
in writing. ‒ we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. this is why i am in favour of this report as various recent cases have shown that the current system does not suffice and that greater safeguards are required. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies the scope of the parliament’s scrutiny over european commissioners’ interests and helps avoid conflicts of interest by rendering the process more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i agree that we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. ‒ offshore oil and gas operations are progressively taking place in increasingly extreme environments and could potentially have major and devastating consequences for the environment and economy of the sea and coastal areas. to address this, member states had until 19 july to update their national legislative frameworks for offshore oil and gas operations to be in line with the offshore safety directive but regrettably the deadline has long passed and the basic elements of a comprehensive eu-wide framework for preventing major accidents and limiting their consequences are not in place. we should do more to consider the special situation of workers and employees in the offshore oil and gas industry since such incidents may have particularly serious implications on their health, families and the fisheries and tourism industries. there is no liability in many of the member states with offshore and gas activities for most third-party claims for compensation for traditional damage caused by an accident. there is no regime in the vast majority of member states for compensation payments, and no assurance in many member states that operators or liable persons would have adequate financial assets to meet claims.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as offshore oil and gas operations could have major devastating consequences for the environment and economy of our seas with these offshore facilities likely to increase in europe over the next few years. firms must be held accountable for any damage caused and therefore preventive measures should be put in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because offshore oil and gas operations are delicate and can pose risks to citizens, the natural environment and to the economy if conducted poorly. adequate compensation and financial security are indispensable tools to prepare ourselves to deal with potential accidents.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations, which defines the elements of such a comprehensive eu-wide framework for preventing major accidents and limiting their consequences. the report deals with what kinds of damage are being paid, financial capacity of liable parties, disbursement of compensation and liability regimes.
in writing. ‒ the motion provides for the constitution of a new census and electoral register by july 2017 and the creation of a ‘comité de suivi’ in charge of monitoring the electoral process and reporting on its effective implementation on a monthly basis. i agree to this towards ensuring the peaceful, transparent and timely conduct of the presidential and legislative elections to consolidate the progress that has been made in the drc over more than a decade. we need to advocate and assist towards a peaceful and constructive dialogue, to prevent any deepening of the current political crisis and to refrain from further violence and provocations. i also agree to a transparent investigation into the alleged human rights violations that took place during the protests to identify those responsible and hold them accountable.
in writing. ‒ the delays in the organisation of the next presidential and legislative elections in the democratic republic of congo constitutes a severe violation of the congolese constitution. this is why i am in favour of this resolution as the eu needs to assist the people of congo by communicating clearly and unambiguously that it would consider president kabila staying in power beyond 2016 to be a severe violation and a threat to relations between the eu and drc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the human rights situation in the drc is of concern. political actors in the drc must engage together in meaningful dialogue to begin to resolve the protracted political crisis there.
in writing. ‒ since the dialogue with the drc authorities, in the framework of article 8 of the cotonou agreement with the objective of obtaining definitive clarifications on the electoral process, is failing, the current political crisis is deepening and the human rights situation is deteriorating. the cotonou agreement obliges respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights principles, which include freedom of expression and of the media, good governance and transparency in political office. therefore, it is important to remain consistent in our full commitment towards the people of the drc by requesting the eu council put the adoption of targeted sanctions on the agenda for the next meeting on 12 december. these sanctions should include visa bans and asset freezes against the high level officials and armed forces agents responsible for the violent repression of the demonstrations, and the political impasse that prevents a peaceful and constitutional transition of power. that is why i have voted in favour
in writing. ‒ there is a strong relationship between energy and potential security issues and consider that energy governance, while also difficult to implement, is essential to economic and human development in developing countries. i welcome electrifi which provides a flexible and inclusive structure, allowing different partners such as the private sector, public institutions and local authorities, to participate and benefit in equal measure under the same market-based conditions. i appeal for due account to be taken of the needs and opportunities in each targeted country/region, recalling that the involvement of partners from the local private sector and civil society organisations will be instrumental in enhancing effectiveness and ownership of the actions deployed.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it identifies the strong relationship between energy and potential security issues while it considers that energy governance is essential to economic and human development in developing countries. africa has a high potential of renewable energy sources in terms of solar and wind production which is crucial in order to ensure access to energy for all, and more must be done to assist the development of the african community in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since access to energy is key to increasing development and can complement the eu’s other efforts to reduce energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ late payments are often a key cause of insolvency, which threatens the survival of businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, resulting in numerous job losses. we need to keep pushing to solve bureaucratic cobwebs which are derailing the progress of our small enterprises through the development of the e-codex system to allow the online submission of applications and encourage further measures targeting the more efficient use of the procedure. our aim should be to simplify and speed up the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors’ rights in the eu. this requires member states to provide the commission with accurate, comprehensive and up-to-date data for effective monitoring and evaluation purposes. in this sense this report is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as it simplifies and speeds up while reducing the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. this european order for payment procedure applies to all civil and commercial matters in cases where at least of the parties lives in an eu country different from the one where the application for an order is made while permitting the free circulation of european orders for payment. i agree with the rapporteur that it should be made sure that it is more known and widely used, by informing and assisting citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european order for payment procedure will allow for more efficient recovery of monetary assets in cross-border proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. it also permits the free circulation of european orders for payment, which are recognised and enforced in all eu countries. it applies to all civil and commercial matters in cases where at least one of the parties lives in an eu country different from the one where the application for an order is made. it applies to all eu countries except denmark. the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure is meant to give feedback on the almost 10 years of experience in applying this procedure throughout europe.
madam president, let me start by thanking vice-president šefčovič and commissioner arias cañete for delivering this winter package as promised. as representatives of our citizens across the eu, we need to answer our constituents’ calls when they ask us for policies that will deliver better air quality and cleaner energy. i believe that this package introduces significant improvements in energy efficiency, which, if properly carried out, can lift people out of energy poverty, cut greenhouse gas emissions and create jobs. energy efficiency comes first, and rightly so. on the other hand, we need to make sure that renewable targets can actually deliver the results we want and do not slow down the momentum reached during cop21. the shift away from coal power plants needs to be concretely encouraged, and no loopholes should remain open to subsidise the use of coal for power generation or high-polluting fossil fuels. the technology and the solutions are there, and we need to make sure that we deliver a package that will seriously tackle climate change in the decades to come. this is once again our opportunity to rise to the occasion and move away from fancy words to concrete action which continues to build on the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and algeria on a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), which allows for the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries. this helps to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this recommendation as it provides for the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries. such protocols include standard clauses which are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy countries, promote reform, modernisation and transition in algeria. this also strengthens the eu-algeria relationship.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement, which contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. it contains standard clauses that are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are concluded. as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in algeria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it bans bottom trawling targeting deep-water species at depths of more than 800 metres. this new provision will protect the vulnerable marine ecosystems of the deep sea bed. provisions such as recording all catches are also included. this will improve monitoring of these fishing activities. member states will also be required to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems and the commission will assess this data annually and adapt the allowed fishing area accordingly.
in writing. ‒ fishing stocks need to be conserved, and thus i am in favour of this recommendation as it enables the union to freeze its fishing footprint by specifying areas that allow deep-sea fishing. this compromise is also in line with the cfp reform and thus ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which reviewed the european parliament rules of procedure in order to make parliament work better, clarify certain rules, improve transparency, and efficiency in our daily work. following inappropriate incidents in plenary, several rules have been redrafted in order to improve the conduct of the plenary sittings and avoid abuses. the changes propose enhanced powers for the president to intervene and increase potential sanctions against individual members.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as this new set of rules aims at making the european union more transparent, efficient and ready to listen to european citizens. i agree with the rapporteur that the overhaul of the [text] can help parliament operate better, clarify rules, and improve transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on the european parliament to adopt a new set of rules that will make it more transparent, efficient, open and ready to listen to european citizens
in writing. ‒ i believe that human dignity is the inviolable foundation of all fundamental rights and should be respected and protected in all eu initiatives. i condemn all forms of discrimination and violence in the eu against all human beings, as it constitutes a direct violation of human dignity. despite these inherent values enshrined in our treaties and charter of fundamental rights, violations still occur in the eu. i believe that in facing today’s challenges, the eu and member states should uphold and enforce these values in every action they take, as the european union is a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. i believe that it is essential to protect all fundamental rights and uphold the principles of the rule of law, but i could not vote in favour of this report as it contained references to abortion to which i cannot agree to.
in writing. ‒ fundamental rights in the european union need to be always strengthened and safeguarded. each and every member state needs to implement policies and introduce new laws which ensure dignity for all. malta has come a long way during the last three years, especially when it comes to lgbti rights, with the introduction of civil union law, banning conversion therapy and the introduction of the gender identity bill. we need to continue fighting for the principles of equality while condemning all forms of discrimination. i am in favour of this report as we need to work towards a more socially inclusive union which condemns any form of discrimination. as with all other votes, i voted against references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which urges to continue fighting for the principles of decency and equality and will not accept any form of discrimination against any of our citizens. however, i have never supported any references to abortion and women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, which, in my opinion, are strictly a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that the commission should develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the creative and cultural sector, and to provide adequate funding for cultural and creative industries (ccis), in order to boost their competitiveness and to enable them to fulfil their potential in terms of creating quality jobs and growth. to achieve this ambitious goal, the report proposes a harmonised definition of ccis on which statistical data should be based. the report also calls on the commission to establish a balanced legal framework, including in the field of copyright, based on the specificities of the sector. it further recommends cross-sectorial cooperation to foster interaction between smes and research centres and universities, in order to better integrate creative with entrepreneurial education and to strengthen the business skills of creative entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries have the potential to help to alleviate the current economic and employment difficulties in the european union and promote inclusive and sustainable growth as well as innovation. i am in favour of this report, which deals with the precarious contractual situation in the cultural and creative industries and ensures respect for fundamental social and labour standards. we need to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and right holders receive fair remuneration for their works.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with precarious contractual situation in the cultural and creative industry and will ensure respect for fundamental social and labour standards. the report is calling on the commission to take the appropriate measures to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and right holders receive fair remuneration for their works, which is essential
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the barriers to women’s empowerment and how greater gender equality would help reaching the eastern partnership (eap) and european neighbourhood (enp) objectives. women remain remarkably absent from the political structures of power, whilst in the economic field, despite the fact that women are generally more educated than men, the situation is also not very encouraging. the gender pay gap also remains an issue. but the report also includes examples of good practices, relevant and successful projects to promote women’s rights and gender equality in the eap states. i believe that gender equality is an area which would greatly benefit from a reinforced cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership states. it is important that women’s rights and gender equality are put higher in the eastern partnership political priorities. i fully support these principles, but i could not vote in favour of this report as i cannot support abortion.
in writing. ‒ each and every partner state needs to safeguard women’s rights and promote gender equality. the rapporteur identified that even though the countries do guarantee equality between women and men, de facto inequality still persists and thus the eu needs to impose more actively gender equality and gender mainstreaming through the many useful instruments of its neighbourhood policy. i voted in favour of this report as social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes are preventing greater inclusion of women in the labour market and participation in political decision-making processes. as in all other votes, i voted against any references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ even though women’s rights and gender equality are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all six eastern partnership countries (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine), social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes remain important and prevent greater inclusion of women in the labour market and participation in political decision-making processes. also violence against women remains a problem. however, i have never supported any references to abortion and women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, which, in my opinion, are strictly a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report with a view to ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application. in this context, the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature. it contains no substantive change to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ companies and individuals in the eu member states are increasingly establishing business activities or economic interests in eu countries. for these reasons a regulation which lists insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners is required. in this context, the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature and contains no substantial change to this regulation. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the regulation, which includes as annexes lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners relevant to its application. in december 2015, poland notified the commission on a substantial reform of its domestic law on restructuring, which would take effect as of 1 january 2016, and requested a modification of the lists set out in annexes a and b to the regulation accordingly. according to article 1(1), to point (4) of article 2 and to recital (9) of the regulation, national proceedings qualify as ‘insolvency proceedings’ in the context of the regulation only if they are listed in annex a thereto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving my consent to the textiles protocol and of the accompanying resolution, extending the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. in december 2011, parliament adopted an interim report postponing its decision on consent pending an improvement in the human rights situation in uzbekistan, particularly in relation to the use of child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. the ilo confirmed that the use of child labour was only sporadic and that the practice had now become socially unacceptable. the same conclusions could not, however, be drawn as regards forced labour. i fully support the work done by the ilo to abolish forced labour in uzbekistan definitively and the efforts of the uzbek authorities. however, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, i agree that articles 2 and 95 of the pca should be activated, allowing general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report as, in the context of the ongoing dialogue and cooperation, it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the textile protocol with uzbekistan while also encouraging further improvements. i agree that, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to allow general or specific measures to be taken in the event of a failure to respect human rights.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which shows fundamental changes in uzbekistan, doing away with child and forced labour and ushering in a new period of openness and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. following reports of the use of child and forced labour during the cotton harvest, the government of uzbekistan authorised the ilo to monitor the cotton harvest and to engage in broad cooperation with ilo through a decent work country programme. i welcome the substantial progress made in uzbekistan, including the adoption of laws which prohibit the use of child labour, achieving the almost total eradication of child labour. the government of uzbekistan is also pursuing the eradication of forced labour in cooperation with the ilo and that progress has been made, but problems still exist that require, among other things, a reform of employment policies. i agree that in view of the efforts being made by the government of uzbekistan, parliament should give consent to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol as it will constitute a positive sign of encouragement to the uzbek government to further pursue its efforts to fully eradicate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as well as to further strengthen cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ uzbekistan has cooperated with both the european union and the international labour organisation while also abolishing forced child labour. we need to make sure that uzbekistan lives up to its commitment. i am in favour of an eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles which further builds on the improvements observed to strengthen civil society. i voted in favour of extending the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which calls on the eas to continue to monitor developments ensuring that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law are upheld and that more space for independent civil society is ensured.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. the global picture of the country, as reported in this resolution of november 2015, confirms the progress made by ecuador in many areas, although some outstanding issues remain, such as a complete press freedom. ecuador is still benefiting until the end of the year from preferential access to the eu market for its goods what has anticipated for the country the full benefits of the accession. furthermore, the accession of ecuador should bring benefits to the integration of the andean region.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of taking account of the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement and that the monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of existing agreements must be a key priority of the common commercial policy. economically ecuador is in a difficult situation and thus a trade agreement would help this country develop. this agreement should be a step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries.
in writing. ‒ the eu and ecuador concluded the negotiations for the accession on 17 july 2014, but due to trade-related problems between ecuador and colombia/peru, the protocol of accession was only approved by the trade policy council on 8 february 2016. this means that the adoption procedure had to be accelerated, so that ecuador could start benefiting from the fta as of 1 january 2017, after its temporary trade preferences granted by the eu expire. therefore, i have voted in favour of this proposal to establish the necessary modifications to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of ecuador, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. it maintains the exclusive access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles from the baselines; ensures continued reciprocal access for the two member states and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, whilst at the same time, ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area; and allows for control measures in harmony with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction, as it is already the case for fisheries in the north sea.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this agreement, which builds on the historical fishing rights of fishermen from norway, denmark and sweden without prejudices to the rights of fishermen in other states. i support the implementation of a reformed system for fisheries management in the eu in line with the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement, which calls to continue a reciprocal access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak. the report also emphasises that access to the internal market for any third country must build on reciprocity, and that in the case of norway any customs duties on food products, including fisheries products, from the eu must be in conformity with the agreement on the european economic area. furthermore, it stresses that the task of the commission is to ensure that customs duties on food and fisheries products from the eu are not set in a way contrary to the principles of free trade in the area of food products, including fisheries products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden.
in writing. ‒ this agreement ensures continued reciprocal access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in skagerrak. i voted in favour of this report as it requests full reporting while emphasising on the obligation of the commission and the council to keep the ep immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a non-legislative resolution, which is linked to the recommendation on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. it calls on the commission to forward to the ep the minutes and conclusions of any consultations as well as a full implementation report before the opening of renewal negotiations. it also calls on the commission and the council to keep the ep immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures related to the agreement and its renewal, pursuant to article 13(2) of the treaty on european union and article 218(10) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as there seems to be clear operational need for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgia is increasingly relevant in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, more specifically since it is a transit country of so-called foreign fighters and a vital partner in the fight against georgian organised criminal groups. from that perspective, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would thus aid and reinforce the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is international by definition.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, and there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgia is increasingly relevant in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, more specifically since it is a transit country for foreign fighters and a vital partner in the fight against georgian organised criminal groups. the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would thus aid and reinforce the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which is consulted on whether to give our consent to the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia. this agreement involves also the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as despite the fact that fewer than 500 redundancies occurred within the nine-month reference period, this application should nevertheless be assimilated to an application under article 4(1)(b) of the egf regulation due to exceptional circumstances having a serious impact on employment and the local, regional or national economy. spain has seen a substantial increase in redundancies since the last financial crisis. i also welcome the decision to offer training in skills that contribute to better job performance and possibilities such as information and communications technology, foreign languages and business management.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to compensate the people made redundant through globalisation. eu-27 faced a production decline for motor vehicles of 0.5 million units in 2015. spain submitted an application for the comunidad valenciana automotive for a financial contribution from the egf, for which they have been allocated eur 856 800. i am in favour of this application. at the same time, i voted in favour of amendments focusing on a possible unfair administration by the company.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on a report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egf) in spain, mainly in the region comunidad valenciana and the town sagunto. the application relates to 250 redundancies of the enterprise bosal s.a. in the town sagunto in spain, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) during the reference period from 30 june 2015 to 30 march 2016. the egf funding of eur 856 800 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 250 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in the nuts level 2 regions of comunidad valenciana (es52), with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on agreement to the conclusion of negotiations with council. during negotiations and consultations with stakeholders, the rapporteur found out that there is still need for a transitional period regarding the compensations paid for level crossing facilities (class iv) due to the fact that some member state(s) still use this regulation as a basis for level crossing facilities compensations. in future, member states may continue to pay compensation for the costs of those facilities on the basis of article 8 of directive 2012/34/eu. they may, nevertheless, need time to amend their national law and administrative provisions to take account of the repeal of regulation 1192/69. therefore, the rapporteur’s recommendation is to follow the commission’s proposal to repeal the regulation, with the exception of these provisions which shall continue to apply until 31 december 2017. that would give time to member states to adapt their national legislation concerning the compensations of costs relating to certain level crossing facilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal to reject the council position and in favour of this recommendation, as it allows member states to compensate railway activities for the payment of obligations which activities of other transport modes do not have to support. obligations are of special payments in the case of accidents, pensions and other payments defined in the scope.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, as it seeks to improve the efficiency of the rail passenger services operations. this should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail vis-a-vis other modes of transport and develop further the single european railway area. the report aims to enhance the efficiency and to improve the quality of rail passenger services. these measures are accompanied by provisions to ensure favourable framework conditions for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on the access to rolling stock.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which mainly aims to raise the level of competition, transparency and fair financial conditions in the single european railway area. the report also introduces safeguards to ensure independence and enforcing provisions on traffic management, maintenance and essential functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the aim of this regulation is to increase transparency in the financial relationship between the state, ports and port service operators. this will contribute to better use of public funds and to the effective and fair application of eu competition rules in ports. the provision of port services, chapter ii of the commission proposal (market access) as amended, now relates to the organisation of port services which may be subject to: (a) minimum requirements for the provision of port services; (b) limitations of the number of providers; (c) public service obligations; (d) restrictions related to internal operators.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s approximately 1 200 seaports are fundamental to its economy, enabling the transit of some 74% of imports and exports of cargo and 37% of eu trade. in addition to being crucial both for the eu’s transport sector and for competitiveness, ports also employ more than 3 million people and have the potential to create further jobs and attract investors. this is why i am in favour of this regulation, as it will provide stability and legal certainty for the whole sector for the next decades.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this regulation, which calls to provide stability and legal certainty for the whole sector over the next few decades, assuring growth and job creation, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the nomination of juhan parts because the candidate gave a good impression at the hearing at committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to amend the legal basis of the research programme dedicated to the coal and steel sectors after periodic assessment of its management rules, with a view to implementing a number of objectives in order to align with the commission’s rules on expert groups. i believe that only the management rules need updating and that the general scope of the fund is not concerned.
in writing. ‒ research and development are crucially important for any sector. nonetheless, for the coal and steel industry i am in favour of a facilitated access to funding while ensuring transparency and alignment with the commission’s rules on expert groups. the research funded covers very important aspects of this industry, such as production processes, utilisation and conservation of resources, environmental improvements and safety at work in the relevant sectors.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for amendment of the legal basis after the periodic assessment of the management rules, with a view to implementing the objectives of facilitating access to funding, ensuring due transparency and alignment with the commission’s rules on expert groups.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned by continued violence and persecution, intolerance and discrimination against religious and belief minorities around the world. i believe that we should launch interreligious dialogues and ensure that minorities are protected, including in the middle east, where yazidi, christian and muslim minorities are being persecuted by da’esh and other terrorist groups, affecting, in particular, women, children, people with disabilities, and elderly people. in its holistic approach to find sustainable, long-term and coherent solutions, based on international human rights standards, it highlights the importance of differentiating between refuges and migrants. trade and human rights must go hand in hand; and i therefore welcome the adoption of the commission’s new strategy “trade for all”, which calls for appropriate actions stipulated in human rights clauses. due to a reference to abortion i was unable to vote in favour of the whole report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which underlines that the universality of human rights is being challenged in many parts of the world. the european union should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights. i also agree with the rapporteur that when it comes to migration, we need long-term and coherent solutions based on human rights, keeping in mind the growing number of human rights abuses against refugees, irregular migrants and asylum seekers on their route to europe. in this report, i voted against any references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which underlines the fact that the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged in many parts of the world and that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights, which is very important. however, i have never supported any references to abortion and women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, which, in my opinion, are strictly a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the eu is surrounded by serious conflicts and the challenges the eu is facing are multifaceted, from terrorism, cyber security, misinformation, human trafficking or radicalisation. the external and internal threats are intertwined more and more. in order to effectively safeguard our interests, protect our citizens and promote values worldwide, eu action requires a full engagement of the member states and the coherent use the policies within the external policy toolbox. i agree that the eu external action needs to be based on three pillars, defined as the ‘three ds’: defence, development and diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on security and defence. as an mep from malta, neutrality is entrenched in our constitution, so in all my voting i reflected the need to have an opt-out and recognition of national cases of neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it labels the current cap risk management toolbox as inadequate in a time of growing market volatility. the report recommends facilitating the introduction of contractual relations by adapting competition law, further developing crisis and risk management tools and monitoring instruments for greater market transparency. a major objective for the future cap must be the tackling of price volatility in order to ensure a fair income for farmers, stabilise agricultural markets and guarantee viable food production.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, which focuses on strengthening the organisation of agricultural sectors while protecting farmers’ income and market transparency. the future cap needs to introduce ways and means on how to combat price volatility and stabilise farmers’ income. we need effective eu measures that will protect the farmers as well as the consumers against unfair trade practices.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because we need effective eu measures that will protect the farmers as well as consumers against unfair trade practices. the farmers are the weakest link of the food chain, while being the most important one. the future cap should look at new ways to combat price volatility and stabilise farmers’ income; the current system doesn’t work or is too slow to react to market imbalances such as the russian embargo or international low demand for agricultural products.
mr president, there is a general request from european citizens that our work be of more direct benefit to them. our work must therefore become ever more relevant to them. earlier this year we succeeded in making a difference in the lives of those exercising the right to movement. we have succeeded in removing the red tape in the presentation of public documents that is repeatedly requested as a person moves to live in one member state or another. we have thus not only reduced the waste of time but also the costs for citizens while providing a framework for a better service. during that debate i had expressed my disappointment at the lack of agreement to include public documents concerning a person's marital status in the same legal framework. after all, these are often the documents that are most frequently requested. i appreciate that parliament recognised this need at the time, and the commission indicated that it intended to put forward a proposal in this respect too. as we have some 13 million citizens living in another country in the union, the questions raised today are highly relevant and call for a clear commitment to reach a legislative proposal in this regard. i cannot, however, refrain from commenting on what you have just said, mr commissioner, as if to indicate that we are expecting more and more judgments from the courts. i believe that european citizens expect clear decisions from us, both as parliament and the other institutions, and so it should be up to us to take legislative decisions without further delay.
in writing. – to watch an adult go through the pain and suffering of cancer is heart-breaking. however, to watch a child go through this pain is intolerable. 35 000 children and young people are every year diagnosed with cancer in europe. every year in the european union we lose 6 000 bright, young souls to this scourge. as socialists and democrats we are committed to continue working hard to help improve the quality of life of children with cancer and childhood cancer survivors. this is why we firmly believe that it is extremely important for children with cancer to have access to new innovative therapies and drugs that can save their lives. the reality is that today there are limited innovative treatments because of the low profit margins in this area of research. we call on the commission to ensure there are enough funding provisions that support high-quality paediatric clinical research and on the member states to concretely support research, development and the availability of medicinal products for paediatric use. this is our children’s lives that we are dealing with and we need to ensure that we do our utmost to provide them with the best possible therapies and medicines.
mr president, european citizens are going through a period of distrust and dissatisfaction with the europe project. the committee on petitions is therefore more important than ever because it is the committee closest to the citizen. it is time for europe to start giving citizens a chance by reaching out to them and acting on their concerns and aspirations. the committee on petitions empowers people to have their voices heard in the european parliament on issues that are important to them or on problems that they feel should be addressed by the european union. it is important to remember that the experiences and positive or negative treatment of petitioners have continued to shape the attitude and opinion of the european union and the european parliament on their relevance. we must therefore be sure to put the citizen at the heart of the peti committee's work. for example, we must respond in a timely manner to petitioners, while ensuring clear answers; we must follow up petitioners' complaints, not let them know what has happened with their complaints; we must hold regular meetings with the national committees on petitions with a view to increasing awareness of our citizens' concerns; we need to improve the peti website to make the procedure for submitting a petition, and obtaining information about it, easier, clearer and more transparent; the committee on petitions and the right to petition the european parliament are important bridges between citizens and parliament that can lead to the work of the european union being better known and appreciated by citizens.
in writing. ‒ visa policy is a crucial matter for the european union, with repercussions for both external action and internal security. as we have witnessed in the last months, developments in the political and migratory situation, particularly in the light of successive visa liberalisation processes, make it necessary to revise the suspension mechanism to make it faster and more flexible. there is no doubt that we need to provide ourselves with the tools that will enable the eu to respond to circumstances, which all have their own specific features. this increased flexibility must nevertheless be accompanied by a robust set of guarantees and measures to protect human rights, along with reports and statistics supplied by the european agencies and the competent law enforcement authorities. this is the only way of guaranteeing the rights of third-country citizens and safeguarding the principles of the community visa policy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ developments in the political and migratory situation, particularly in light of successive visa liberalisation processes, make it necessary to revise the suspension mechanism to make it more flexible. pertinent circumstances include substantial and sudden increases in the number of third-country nationals residing irregularly in eu territory; unfounded asylum applications from nationals of that third country; rejected readmission applications and threats to security in european territory. i am in favour of this report, as visa policy is a crucial matter for the european union for both external action and internal security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which reached a deal where parliament could have an important role in suspending the visa waiver of a certain country while deblocking the related visa liberalisation files with important countries and partners such as georgia and ukraine. parliament will play an important role when it comes to re-imposing visa requirements, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as i consider that the draft commission implementing directive is not consistent with european union law, in that it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031, which is to determine the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or parasitic plants injurious to plants or plant products (‘pests’) and measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. i call on the commission to modify its draft implementing directive in order to bring them in line.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of the xyllela fastidiosa in italy and the introduction of invasive alien species in europe highlight the need to ensure that all imports of plants or plants products are free of pests. i am in favour of this resolution, as one infected plant can destroy a whole sector or the economy of a whole region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which calls on the commission to implement a directive, which seeks to amend annexes i to v to directive 2000/29/ec, which undermines the requirements for the introduction into the european union of certain fruits susceptible to pests, in particular regarding citrus black spot and citrus canker.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as many survivors throughout the eu are often unable to apply for funding to cover the costs of social services, which is currently the single biggest concern for thalidomide survivors who, now in their 50s and 60s, are going to need these services even more often in the coming years, as they become more dependent on their carers. thalidomide survivors need increasing support for their unmet health needs, as their bodies are rapidly deteriorating owing to the nature of their disabilities and to the lack of support over the years since their birth. the resolution urges member states and the commission to coordinate actions and measures seeking to formally recognise and provide compensation to thalidomide survivors. i urge the commission to create a framework protocol at european level for all european union citizens affected by thalidomide to receive similar amounts of compensation, regardless of which member state they are from, and to draw up an eu programme for assistance and support for thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide was a drug used against nausea in pregnant women. back in the 1950s and 1960s this drug resulted in malformations in infants and in many cases it was also fatal. as the s&d sponsor of this resolution, i am in favour of recognition and compensation to all survivors in europe. we need to urge both member states and the commission to coordinate actions and take measures to formally recognise and provide compensation to thalidomide survivors. the german federal government should use the opportunity presented by the forthcoming amendment to the thalidomide foundation act, to allow thalidomide survivors who have been accredited as such by court-appointed trust schemes, or are beneficiaries of national government schemes, to access the special health fund of the german contergan stiftung. we request that thalidomide survivors be admitted to the scheme on a group basis, where their status as thalidomide-affected individuals has been accepted as bona fide in their own countries. the commission needs to create a framework protocol at european level under which all european citizens affected by thalidomide would receive similar amounts of compensation, regardless of which member state they are from.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that thalidomide survivors should be formally recognised in all member states concerned and be finally given adequate and fair compensation from the special health fund of the german conterganstiftung. the aim of the resolution is to put pressure on the german government to extend the funding available for thalidomide survivors in germany to those survivors from other countries concerned. the timing of the resolution is crucially important as in january 2017, the german parliament will amend a law on the rules for providing financial support. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i agree that the commission needs to deliver the report provided for in article 50 of the paediatric medicines regulation in a timely fashion, providing comprehensive identification and an in-depth analysis of the obstacles currently hampering innovation in medicinal products targeting the paediatric population. it is very important to have a solid evidence base of this kind for effective policymaking. based on these findings, the commission should consider making changes, including through a legislative revision of the paediatric medicines regulation, that give due consideration to amongst others mechanism-of-action-based, rather than only disease-type-based, paediatric development plans and incentives that better stimulate research and more effectively serve the needs of the paediatric population. the commission should consider amending the paediatric medicines regulation so that promising trials in the paediatric population are not terminated early because of disappointing results in the target adult population.
in writing. ‒ many fields of paediatric medicine suffer from lack of research and appropriately authorised medical products to treat paediatric diseases. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution as it seeks clarification from the commission on the progress of the report as well as highlighting the areas and issues in which the commission should, on the basis on the forthcoming report, consider a review of the regulation to better serve the needs of the paediatric population. many children suffering from rare paediatric diseases, such as cancer, do not have access to targeted paediatric medicines. we need to foster innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can be treated with medicines that have been developed for and proved effective and safe for them.
in writing. ‒ around 6 000 minors die of cancer each year in europe. out of those who survive, two thirds suffer from treatment-related side effects for the rest of their lives. the paediatric regulation has had a substantial impact on the development of children’s medicine, but not enough progress has been made in a number of fields, especially oncology. this is why i voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for funding and proper policies that stimulate more research into paediatric medicines, and is aimed at improving the treatments and the quality of life for child and teenage cancer survivors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which analysed the activities of this committee over the 2015 period. its work is very important as through the committee on petitions we must work to regain the trust of citizens and must do so by listening to and solving the problems that concern our citizens. the committee must listen to and help solve the problems affecting its citizens because, through petitions, it can assess the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives while making the european parliament more responsive, helping to solve problems mainly related to the application of eu legislation. petitions are a valuable source of information when it comes to identifying weaknesses in how eu law is applied. in 2015, 943 petitions were admitted (65.9% of a total of 1 431) and 483 were declared inadmissible (33.8%). in 2015 the committee on petitions managed to completely eliminate the petition backlog that it had accumulated, which considerably boosted the quality of relations with petitioners, who saw that their petitions were now being processed more swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the citizens should always be kept as a priority in all of our decisions, both on a european and national level. the committee on petitions has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them and assessing the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives. through the committee on petitions we must work to regain the trust of citizens and must do so by listening to and solving the problems that concern citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which highlights the main activities of the petitions committee that are based on citizens’ petitions to the parliament. the committee has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them and assessing the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives, which is very important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which asks for the involvement and consent of the european parliament in negotiations on international agreements. however, it must also be noted that i am concerned about the commission desire to open up europe’s skies even further to hugely successful third-country airlines at a time when many european airlines are facing serious financial problems.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the enf which deal with international air agreements on the ‘motion for a resolution on international aviation agreements’. the reason behind this relates to the very difficult situation air malta, malta’s national airline, is currently going through
