on behalf of the gue/ngl group the bluefin tuna is perhaps the most famous endangered fish species we know of, and that's a dubious honor. in 50 years, the number of bluefin tuna has declined by almost 90%. this has brought the species to the brink of extinction, and the reason for this has been the severe overfishing that has taken place for decades. overfishing, which was largely due to the subsidized overcapacity of our european fishing fleet. in 2006, measures were taken to reduce overfishing and protect tuna. but while it does seem to be working somewhat, there is no reason for euphoria. because if the tuna population goes down to almost zero and then that population doubles again, you've got twice as much as almost zero. the bluefin tuna is still listed on the red list of endangered species due to human activity, and many organizations warn that it is too early to fish for tuna again. and that is precisely what the rapporteur and the european commission want: more fish! we are not even talking about the by-catch of other species, all of which, like the tuna, are facing a horrible death. the party for the animals does not agree with this, because those who decide to fish more endangered species are committing a predation on our planet and thus on future generations. i also believe that agricultural subsidies and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
we are talking today about the tuna recovery plan and its transposition into european rules. it looks good. i congratulate the rapporteur on the very clear way in which he has dealt with this. i think we will be able to reach agreement with the commission in a number of trialogue meetings. that is a hopeful development, but on the other hand i am very concerned about the other fish species in the mediterranean. almost all of these species are severely overfished in the mediterranean. for example, the hedgehog is estimated to be caught ten times as much as is responsible. the younger the hedgehog is, the less it reproduces. this phenomenon occurs in several species of fish. i therefore ask commissioner vella: the commission is also proposing to set up a european fisheries management organisation, which will be responsible for the management of the fisheries resources of the mediterranean. after all, this sea is being ruined in that way and so are the fish in this sea.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. thank you for your contribution, commissioner. first of all, i would like to emphasize - and we must not lose sight of this - the importance of this subject to the european public. people want clean air and people are really sick of being conned by the auto industry. secondly: this is the commission that has better legislation as its top priority. if this decision is an example of anything, it's not better legislation. the present decision is not based on any impact assessment and no member state dares to take political responsibility for this decision. i think it is significant that the council is completely absent again. the member states blame brussels for this decision, but it is the member states that we must blame for the fact that clean air is not yet a reality for our citizens. third, i'm getting back on that clean air. it is a fundamental human right to have clean air. but i would ask the commissioner how the drivers of our european cities can generate clean air for their citizens if this way dirty cars can continue to drive around in the cities. how is that possible, commissioner? a city like london had already crossed the nitrogen oxide limit for the rest of the year on january 7. on january 7th, across the border for the whole of 2016! how can a city like london with these kinds of decisions ever give its citizens clean air? and finally, in the netherlands, a word of the year for 2015 was chosen: "cheating software". that was the word coined to describe the practices of the auto industry. the way in which the member states in particular think they can operate politically will give us a much worse word of the year next year. and that word will be: "political fraud".
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for explaining the proposal once more. i am a bit disappointed by that, commissioner, because i expected to hear what potential change you can see in the proposal and what i get from your speech is that no change is possible any more. what was agreed by the member states, who indeed are not present here, is that all vehicles can emit up to 168 mg/km until 2019 – you mentioned only the date for new models, but if we discuss all vehicles then it is 2019. you know that very well. you are also aware of the 1.5 conformity factor, which means changing our standard from 80 to 120 and that only starting in 2021, although already in 2007 we as co-legislators decided that it should go to 80 in 2014. that is what we did in co-legislation. what they are doing now in a technical meeting is to say that this value can move to 120 until 2021. even if you are on the side of the car industry, you cannot accept that a technical committee is adjusting what we decided as co-legislators. it is important to realise that already we can improve much more. today in the flemish news, mr belet, it was mentioned that opel, for one car and with a simple software correction, went down from 750 to 200 in just one day, and you are agreeing now that they have time until 2021 to water down a proposal that was decided in 2007. that is what you are going to agree upon. commissioner, the social democrats asked a very clear question: will there be a new proposal on the conformity factors – yes or no? we demand a clear answer tonight.
we should not ignore tonight that 2015 was a bad year for the european automotive industry. consumers and governments have a right to fair information and clean air. the central question for me tonight is: how do we solve this in the coming years? my colleagues belet and liese have already outlined the epp approach. we are going to have a tight timetable on rde emissions. the second is: the supervision of national test institutes and type-approval. can the commissioner give a clear timetable tonight of what she is going to do, with concrete steps? i can well imagine that the colleagues on that side have lost their patience. but we must also be realistic. there is an employment prospect which can easily be overlooked, but we must not do that. there's new inspiration from cop 21. and there's even a relationship with ttip, because it was discovered in the us and not in europe.
i too want to help to find a solution, but i wonder if the european commission and the council can even show that this huge compliance factor of 50% and even 110% overrun is legally feasible. it also means delay. professional legal advisers and our own lawyers have pointed out to us that this is an unacceptable and legally unfeasible violation of the legal norm. is a 30% compliance factor not more sensible? this would correspond to the maximum deviation of the new portable emission measurement systems (the pems). it is therefore practical and consistent with the original commission proposal, which i have always defended. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. matthias müller from volkswagen is speaking to the epa. so what are we talking about? why do industry and the commission think that this cannot be done here in europe? i hear from the top of the industry in europe that they want to set an example and be sustainable. let's try to find a solution here together. so i cannot support this proposal.
madam president, we have just listened to the commissioner with a few commitments about the future. yet the decision taken on rde is a commission and council decision, so without any commitments from the council the commitments from the commission are not very valuable. can you please send a message to the council and ask them for a reply to the commitments from the commission so that we get a written answer from the council, which is not present here tonight?
on behalf of the s&d group, there is sand in the wheels of the european economy. investment is lagging behind and growth is fragile. banks and especially smes have a hard time finding each other. capital markets are underdeveloped. the capital markets union can therefore be an opportunity to stimulate financial innovation, to remove barriers between member states and to use capital efficiently. the commission has looked closely at the united states. it has often been said that capital markets provide 80 percent of the credit there and only 20 percent here. but to speak to david bowie: "this is not america". the 80/20 ratio suggests that capital markets need to be better developed, but also that bank financing needs to be better developed. it's important to fix benches. it is good to look again at the united states. there has been a separation between savings and business banking. according to oecd research, the classification of banks is better regulated there. the report by mr burkhard balz - my compliments to the rapporteur - is based on the premise that the financial sector must serve the real economy. regulation is a means to that end. it's not an end in itself, it's not an illness in itself, it's a means. it is this balanced approach which enables the s&d group to endorse this report. the objective of regulation must always be to make the financial sector serviceable. it is also good to periodically check the serviceability of the financial sector. the capital markets union can only work in the end if the european context is recognised. that means boosting innovation and fixing banks. that's how we get the sand out of the machine and get on the road to new growth and jobs.
mr president, under the excellent leadership of kaja kallas we are presenting an ambitious list of wishes and details to swiftly develop the digital single market or, rather, a digital single space in europe. especially in these difficult times, we must deliver on the optimistic promise of room for innovation and a strong knowledge economy. these are key for internet users but also for start-ups, so that they can upscale and do not leave en masse for silicon valley. we list practical solutions to end geo-blocking and to harmonise 28 different laws on copyright, parcel delivery and consumer protection. but more importantly, principles such as respect for fundamental rights, fair competition and security must be robust and remain, despite the changes of the technological revolution. the open internet, open data and open access, net neutrality and the free flow of data, but not privatised law enforcement, are all important not only for europeans but also for people worldwide. so we must also prioritise the international components such as internet governance, and strengthen people’s rights online while not allowing this to become a zero-sum relationship.
in writing. ‒ everyone should pay their taxes properly, including large companies. tax evasion and avoidance must therefore be tackled firmly. although i believe that the establishment of tax legislation is primarily a matter for the member states themselves, agreements should be made at european level to combat tax evasion and avoidance by such companies. public disclosure of taxes paid is an important step in this process. the commission considers that the contested tax ruling is not in line with the arm's length principle and that the contested tax ruling is not in line with the arm's length principle. however, a consolidated common corporate tax rate imposed on the member states from brussels goes too far. member states must be in control of this.
in writing. ‒ first, we spent months arguing over which parliamentary committees would be competent. we then had to go through almost 1300 amendments from colleagues and now that we finally have the plenary vote, the first legislative proposals from the commission in this area have already been tabled. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ first, we spent months arguing over which parliamentary committees would be competent. we then had to go through almost 1300 amendments from colleagues and now that we finally have the plenary vote, the first legislative proposals from the commission in this area have already been tabled. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. that is why i voted against this report.
the european council of december last year was not very different from the dozens of summits that preceded it. symbolic measures were again put on paper, but the only solution to stop the invasion of asylum, the closure of the borders, is still not accepted by the european elite! and that's what's been on the news these past few weeks. more than thirty-one thousand asylum seekers have already crossed this month. that's 21 times more than the entire month of january last year. organised mass attacks in cologne, hamburg, frankfurt by asylum seekers. attacks in sweden, belgium, the netherlands and austria, a suicide bombing in istanbul by a terrorist who entered turkey as a so-called refugee. a dutch camera crew being ambushed in the tent camp in calais and an attempt to stone two transsexuals in dortmund by immigrants. president. - the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. my party, the party for freedom, wants the netherlands to close its borders. we must protect our country to preserve what we have built: security, freedom, prosperity and our culture. we can't let that get ruined.
mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister and both supporters and opponents of the government. this shows that the european parliament is the arena for a debate about our shared values. this is not about interfering in national matters or attacking one country or another. this is about standing up for the core values of the european project. the polish government, with the majority that it has won, has the responsibility to maximise the space for opposition and criticism, not minimise it. you have to strengthen checks and balances and not weaken them. i have listened to you very carefully, madam prime minister, but i am not fully reassured when i hear your party leader taking mr orbán as an example, who in turn takes mr putin as an example. i do feel that the european commission initiative is justified, but it does seem arbitrary and there are accusations of party politics. why poland, not hungary, or indeed why no questions about the state of emergency in france? the debate here shows that there is a need for an eu-wide mechanism that is based on objective and transparent criteria to assess all the member states and eu institutions in the same way. i see mr timmermans smiling because he knows that we are elaborating such a mechanism here in parliament. i would be delighted, mr timmermans and mr koenders, if the council and commission would take up the invitation of the european parliament and elaborate such a mechanism for the whole of the european union together.
mr president, let there be no doubt about it, the greens are concerned about the legislative changes introduced by the polish government about the anti-democratic tendencies. but i would also like to speak here in the presence of the dutch foreign minister about the way in which we deal with our neighbours, about the organization of that mutual trust which commissioner timmermans mentioned. there is nord stream, the gas pipeline from russia to germany and the netherlands. poland is ignored and the fear of poland towards russia is put aside. that is unwise policy, mr koenders. and so there was the poland hotline of geert wilders. this has been the subject of a great deal of debate in this house. prime minister rutte, the dutch prime minister, did not want to distance himself from that checkpoint. the prime minister has been invited to come and explain this to this house. he refused. this was not appreciated by the countries of central and eastern europe. they felt insulted that the dutch government had remained silent. that does not build trust, minister! we must learn from each other in europe. but only then, and only then, will we be successful, if we are willing to recognize and act on each other's feelings.
in writing. it is good that the european commission is going to investigate whether the new laws in poland are an undermining of the rule of law. the situation is very worrying and clear boundaries must be drawn. if, after hungary, the polish government can also undermine the rule of law with impunity, the european union will lose not only its credibility as a defender of human rights but also its internal effectiveness. the risk of a domino effect to other european member states is real: if the eu does not act now, when will it? of course, a democratically elected government has room to implement policies in its own way, but there must be a limit to what we in europe consider acceptable. that limit should have been set in 2010 when hungary sent judges into early retirement, set up an 'independent' media council to fine 'non-objective' journalists and adjusted the electoral districts in favour of fidesz. this hungarian issue was the reason for frans timmermans, then minister, to discuss the principle of non-intervention within the eu with a number of colleagues. it is now up to the dutch presidency to see this through: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, first of all, thank you for your commitment and your clear messages. yes, you have shown that today the challenge for the european union is to ensure that progress is made both politically and humanitarianally. i would like to draw attention to four elements in this connection. firstly, the 'madad' trust fund and the contribution of the member states. we know that to manage the humanitarian situation, we need to act today, but also anticipate tomorrow. the member states must keep their promises and not forget that this is also a response to the refugee crisis which is of great concern to them. secondly, in view of the talks in geneva, it is clear that the development of the situation on the ground must reflect the commitment of all parties to this political process, not only as a pledge of good faith, but also to avoid any disconnection between the aspirations of the syrians and the agreements reached between the representatives participating in the negotiations leading up to the transition. thirdly, the crucial question of the composition of the opposition delegation and the participants in the negotiations. two remarks: on the one hand, the divisions among the members of the international support group on this issue must not undermine the process between syrians the december 2015 security council resolution is clear on this point; on the other hand - but i know that the special envoy de mistura pays special attention to this - the participation of women, a key element in principle, is like an investment in the future of syria. finally, the exchange of views you had yesterday with the jordanian foreign minister, as well as the ongoing dialogue with lebanon, are very positive points. like you said, crisis management, yeah. investing in key partners in the mediterranean, doubly so, and that beyond the refugee crisis. this is also the case in syria, from which we can learn.
i would like to make two points about the syrian tragedy. the starvation of at least 400 000 civilians in besieged areas and the persecution of the christian minority by the syrian kurds. madaya has become synonymous with the deliberate starvation of the civilian population for the purposes of war. the citizens of fou'ah and kafraya (near idlib), nubl and zahra (near aleppo) and deir al-zor, where 200,000 syrians are besieged by the islamic state, are equally affected. what i've heard today about what's going on there is terrifying. all of these places are in areas where planes of the anti-isis coalition are flying, including those of some european countries. my question - which i also receive from the region itself - to the high representative is: why is it that only the russians drop food packages here and you hear nothing about europe? i would also like to draw your attention to the legal position of christians and churches in the kurdish area of syria. the confiscation of the homes and property of christian refugees and the kurdish attacks on checkpoints in christian neighbourhoods in the towns of al-hakaseh and qamishli call for a strong, unfavourable european response. i sympathize with the kurds, but rights are for everyone. it is not about a process of kurdification in syria, which suffers enough!
madam president, now the iran deal has been implemented, i call on the high representative to involve the islamic republic of iran to stop the war in syria and to cease its support for assad. the images of starving children in madaya remind us of the ongoing horrors that innocent people in syria are suffering. it is 2016 and it seems as if we have forgotten that we pledged ‘never again’. they are still being bombed by assad and russian airstrikes alike, and we must do more. in fact the eu must do all it can. we should all ask more of ourselves in this incredibly dire situation. we must show more leadership because, without it and without serious commitment to humanitarian aid that has to be ongoing, refugees will continue to flee from in and around syria. it is unacceptable and also very unhelpful that we only start to consider syria suffering a crisis when it impacts us through isis terror or through refugees coming to europe. i think that has been the motive for too many member states and it has to end. we need to do more.
on behalf of the group of the european right let us be sober. neither the wahhabi kingdom of saudi arabia nor the shiite islamic republic of iran are currently contributing to the humanitarian urgency of a stable middle east. both riyadh and tehran are fighting the islamic state, but with different objectives. and that islamic state also has europe, our continent, in its sights. that brings me to the view of a german expert on saudi politics. the west must continue to work with saudi arabia if it is to effectively combat al-qaeda and the islamic state, as the jihadists have increasingly well-connected international networks. you should know that, too. the intelligence services of several eu member states are aware of riyadh. mr president, i would like to ask you to explain to me how the european approach to iran - you could almost say an embrace if i hear you - threatens to bring about a joint fight against jihadism with saudi arabia, because that is a very tense situation.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, my group agrees that it is very important to discuss this matter, contrary to what mr lamberts thinks. i have been told that even the danish government is very eager to come here and discuss with the european parliament – they were even ready to come this week – and yes, it is important to discuss it before the vote takes place in the danish parliament, but i think it is a bit artificial to push for a debate here, this week, in this plenary. there is an opportunity on monday, there is another meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and i would ask you, president, to contact the chair and coordinators of libe again and ask them to consider it to be included on the agenda for monday.
i would like to congratulate mr juncker on his appointment as president of the council of ministers. a real implementer of eu policy, a pragmatist without vision. a president who has shown no reluctance to throw the elderly out of the nursing home, to throw the sick into the street, and then to fill the buildings that have been freed with the warmly welcomed migrants. a gray cog in the eu's evil machine, who wishes muslims a happy ramadan but remains silent when his friends rape hundreds of women in cologne's station square. it is good to have a president like that, who is only too happy to pay billions to brussels, send billions to corrupt countries like greece and ukraine and contribute to the billions that disappear into the pockets of the beast of ankara. the netherlands has drawn up a list of priorities. it wants an innovative union, a union which is limited to the main issues, a union which is binding. and you know what this means? more european union, more banking union, more tax union, more union in the surveillance of external borders, more union in energy supply, more union in the accession of corrupt countries, more union in the admission of refugees, more union in the emptying of pension funds and more union in the looting of savings accounts for bankrupt banks. so what outcome can we expect from this dutch presidency, which has cost 62 million? more of the european union. but there is also a still wider gap between politics and citizens, who want to go in a totally different direction, an even wider economic mess in the member states, which are bursting socially and financially under the pressure of millions of unemployable and unintegrated migrants, and further disruption of the lives of thousands of women who have been assaulted and raped by testosterone bombs from muslim countries and especially from a more muslim culture. and by that i mean: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. because for the bystanders in my audience, since september 11, 2001, there have been over 22,000 islamic attacks with over 125,000 deaths. that is why i have the following proposal for mr rutte: don't hang around here any longer. return to the hague as soon as possible, preventively detain all male asylum seekers, legalize pepper spray so that women can protect themselves, introduce administrative detention for potential terrorists and above all close national borders to stop this terrorist threat. but, mr juncker, you need not fear all this under this president.
i am somewhat ashamed to say that it is the belgians who have to remind you that in this house we speak primarily our mother tongue. now i know that we dutch people pride ourselves on speaking many foreign languages. we even have a term for it in the netherlands: "doing a french carpenter's job". but i think you can be a little more proud of your native language, and i will therefore address you in dutch. i will also thank you in dutch, mr rutte, for starting your speech with the story that there are simply things that are better done together in europe than as a member state alone. after the dark brown business card that mr de graaff has given here from the netherlands, i am grateful to you for starting your speech with it. because it takes courage in that sour dutch debate about europe to say: "we can't do everything alone, some things are better done together". i'll give you another tip: do not mention the "f" word! and by "football", i mean... i'm surrounded by colleagues who are going to the european championships. if you are going to draw football parallels with every speech you make in the next six months, then i have a very difficult life and my colleagues in this house have a very difficult life. so maybe you shouldn't. you can see from the reactions of colleagues that your words are being weighed. the statements about a mini-schengen from one member state or five or six raise serious questions here. just as this house expects you to do everything possible to win the referendum in ukraine and perhaps to provide clarity on what you are going to do. in the case of a "yes", that seems clear. but what do you do in the event of a "no"? then i come to migration, the heart of the debate. you're talking about a sharp reduction. you speak in the netherlands of reducing inflows to zero. zero seems unrealistic to me, but i share your ambition to limit that influx, otherwise the support will be lost in the municipalities and among the citizens who are now working hard to arrange for reception. my question to you is: what exactly are you going to do? you're going to brag about concrete results. what are your concrete interim steps over the next six months to achieve that? do you support the proposals on return, on a coastguard, which the european commission has made? and what are we going to be able to charge you for in six months? good luck with that.
the dutch prime minister has warned against the "fat me". there are numerous examples of selfishness spilling over into cowardice, ranging from the middle finger of angry motorists to bonuses for failing bankers. the 'fat me' is also seen in europe. examples of this are: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. the netherlands, as the chairman, does not always have the choice of topics. there are inevitably issues where a president can only be pragmatic in order to bring parties and countries together and turn words into deeds. because, yes, time is of the essence. but pragmatism alone will not be enough. we must also fight against the 'fat me' and for a working europe. a europe in which citizens can count on independent courts and free media, not only within our borders but also in ukraine and turkey, in which religion or origin does not make anyone suspect in advance, as mr de graaff has just done, in which sovereignty of countries does not become the ability to flip problems about protection to neighbours. the netherlands has a long tradition of welcoming differences in faith and origin. that is a dutch tradition, mr de graaff, and yet, despite these differences, we know how to work together. in that tradition, the pvda delegation will also see the dutch presidency. we would very much like to see a dutch presidency that understands that turkey cannot reduce the flow of refugees to zero as long as the syrian conflict continues and that understands that refugees need to have a perspective through work and education. we want a president who is committed to tackling false construction and discrimination in the labour market, who is at the forefront of tackling tax evasion. this point has been raised several times. the netherlands is at least european champion in that. and we'd like to see a chairman who helps to further the paris agreement. these are choices made by people over markets, these are choices made for a working europe and against the 'fat me'.
as a basketball player, i appreciate your comment about football, but we do have one thing in common: we want results. that is, of course, the point of europe. the credibility of the european union is at stake. there is a lot of talk, but when it comes to implementation and enforcement, there is really not enough going on. let the netherlands turn that around and change. i am thinking, for example, of human rights and in particular religious freedom, pakistan. we shall shortly be revising the system of generalized tariff preferences for the developing countries. and a country like pakistan is the one that's benefitting enormously from that. but what do we see in pakistan? minorities like hindus, ahmadis and christians are systematically oppressed by these so-called blasphemy laws. even in small incidents, blasphemy is thrown into the mix and people disappear into prison, with asia bibi being the most famous victim. she's been sentenced to death! we have to stop this abuse. the netherlands must push pakistan to really comply with human rights and religious freedom. if it does not, the system of tariff preferences for pakistan will be frozen. then the refugees: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. how are we going to restore europe's credibility? we must distribute refugees fairly across all member states. solidarity is needed. put that at the top of your agenda! and let us provide concrete solutions. take calais, a fairly straightforward problem. and what do we see there? for years now, thousands of people who want to move on have been staying there. truck drivers are threatened, cabs are pulled open, cargo is destroyed. why don't you take a real-life example? now, why don't you arrange for another summit on that in a couple of weeks? then you can get a tangible result. and speaking of transport, i also think of a very different but relevant point: the unfair competition from airlines such as emirates, easyjet and qatar airways. they are subsidized by their governments and can therefore fly at dumped prices. we cannot compete with klm! why don't you take a point like this in europe with other airlines? so, mr president, it is ultimately a matter of keeping agreements, of keeping them. maybe not as sexy, but it's a way to keep track of your results and restore credibility. finally, two points. correct the mistake, mr rutte, which was made during the last dutch presidency in 2004. the european union then opened accession negotiations with turkey. stop that! a large part of turkey and its capital are in europe. and then we see that a police state has come into being. opponents of the regime face either the rubber bat or prison. we have to stop this. stop the accession of turkey! secondly, you were right to say it, brexit. putting everything at risk to prevent a brexit. a brexit would be disastrous and we must prevent that together. good luck with that. let's build credibility! [ the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. look, mr president, we're getting a combination now. turkey is needed, money is being given, 3 billion euros, and accession negotiations are being intensified. that is the way turkey is going to be dragged into the european union. i don't want to do that! i would think you would be on my side, because i would expect you, from a socialist group, to be against a police state, against a country like turkey, where opponents face the rubber baton or prison! let us agree with turkey on an improved partnership, but certainly not on accession. don't start that!
welcome, mr rutte, it's a pleasure to see you here. you are right to say that citizens are sceptical about the european union because of too many rules, and they are also very irritating. but, mr rutte, that is not the reason why the citizens are turning away from the european union. they turn away because they don't see the european union performing when it comes to the eurozone crisis, the refugee crisis, terrorism, and so on and so forth. but the real problem is not the eu. it is the national governments that, time and again, torpedo every solution in an endless series of summits where much is said but no action is taken. you want to be pragmatic, and i agree with you. so let's stop the theoretical discussions about national sovereignty and get results. so not cosmetic and symbolic things, but real reforms of the eu. and by eliminating school milk subsidies, we're really not going to address the big challenges. so use your good contacts with david cameron to work together towards a stronger, more decisive europe, because that is what convinces the citizens and in both our countries the citizens will be able to vote in the coming year. i'm assuming that both you and cameron will be pulling out all the stops to convince people. finally, during the dutch presidency, the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework takes place and most citizens say: "what is it?" that is the totally archaic inefficient eu budget, which is fixed for 7 years, so that we cannot even respond to unforeseen circumstances, such as the refugee crisis. that is completely absurd. i hear that the european commission has put plans for an ambitious reform on hold, and i therefore count on the dutch government to do everything possible to radically reform the european budget, because the next opportunity, mr rutte, is not until 2026. you have our support for far-reaching reforms for a stronger and more effective europe.
i also extend a warm welcome to mr rutte. the dutch presidency is unfortunately the presidency of crises. we know prime minister rutte as someone who is wary of big things and wants to tackle the problems in a practical way. i'm still asking for a vision. the crises do not fall from the sky, but have a similar cause. the european union has been a toy for big business in recent years, not a europe of and for the citizens. this was made very clear when the citizens in the netherlands and france said no to the european constitution in 2005, but that constitution was pushed through the treaty of lisbon. but there 's more . the british are being pushed into an ever more federal europe, although they made it very clear from the moment of accession that they did not want that. and now there's a threat of brexit. when internal border controls were abolished, no one said that there would be an asylum policy at european level. i deplore the attitude of those eastern european member states which do not want to take in asylum seekers. but i do understand that people feel attacked there. add to this the dictates to greece, portugal and ireland, while the imbalances in the eurozone simply persist. this was not mentioned when the euro was introduced. the brussels bubble knew full well that the euro would lead to a huge transfer of powers in the financial and economic sphere. mr rutte, you have a great opportunity now to restore the citizens' confidence in europe. and not through a nice app, as minister koenders proposed this week, but by finally taking the dutch voter seriously when a referendum on the treaty with ukraine is held in the netherlands on 6 april. tell the dutch voters that you will ensure that the treaty with ukraine does not enter into force if there is sufficient turnout and a majority says no. a little vision can't hurt.
welcome to the prime minister rutte. we hope for a successful dutch presidency. i want to start with a quote: "we are committed to strengthening economic growth. we must create jobs in europe and tackle backwardness". you're probably thinking, well, that's a bit of our presidency. that was balkenende, july 1, 2004. in fact , every presidency since the last one has put jobs and growth back at the center . we must deliver that, and then all will be well with the confidence in europe. perhaps we should consider that this growing euroscepticism and rejection of europe is due to something else. it's because of a lack of credibility. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. in that sense, it is good to hear that you think the european parliament is so important, because i have not heard you say that very often in the hague. let's move on to the credibility issue. europe has a credibility problem in greece. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of jobs created by the new technologies by a factor of two. in poland we have a credibility problem. by talking about values now and talking about a union of values, but in the meantime continuing with nord stream, including the netherlands. in france, by leaving test balloons about mini-schengen where france doesn't even belong. what credibility is that? in portugal, by talking about closing budgets in portugal, but meanwhile luring the 20 largest companies to amsterdam to get their revenue there without any economic activity. in our neighbouring countries, by talking about hosting in the region, but cutting back on development cooperation and transferring zero euros to the un food programme, which is what was promised. or in the netherlands by constantly talking about giving up sovereignty, which we don't want when it comes to the eu, but meanwhile wanting to give away tons of sovereignty when it comes to ttip. that's the credibility! it is time for the netherlands to show leadership to become truly credible. that means redirecting, over that 50, transferring the money that we promised, stopping nord stream 2, really going to a social europe where we're tackling our own trade surplus and not just looking at the deficits in the south, but also our surplus in the north, and finally in the ukraine debate, really campaigning. not only because the association agreement is a trade agreement, but also because it is important for ukraine that it is not a political toy between russia and europe. that is a credible europe. that is the kind of leadership we need from the netherlands during this presidency. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i have a question for my colleague mr bas eickhout. it's about europe. but what gave birth to europe? europe was peaceful and had plenty of food, food security, and that requires farmers, family farms and a liveable countryside. i also have a specific question for mark rutte. when it comes to the netherlands and europe, is it only about the market and innovation? the money must also go to the farms. how do you see the common agricultural policy, as we move towards 2020, in relation to this? how do we work together to keep it safe? and when it comes to nature policy, the birds and habitats directive, how do we ensure that farmers are not dispossessed and that we maintain the certainty that farmers, families and family businesses will continue to exist in europe?
"blue card" is the answer. mr schreijer, always in favour of a good agricultural debate. let me start with the cda. you have been advocating the liberalization of agricultural policy for many years. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. then, when that global price market is hard on the farmers, you suddenly want money. what the hell is a cda? liberalisation or indeed agricultural policy at european level? i don't remember, but the cda is completely lost on this issue. and about nature in the netherlands: the real reason why farmers are under such pressure right now is mainly the expansion of roads, farmland and all that sort of thing, much more than nature. you need to look at the right enemy instead of your obsession with natura 2000.
mr president, i would like to welcome the dutch presidency and i will continue now in dutch, my own language. het is van vitaal belang dat wij nuchter blijven en dat wij de vluchtelingencrisis bezweren. dit echter wel op basis van de wet op de medemenselijkheid ten opzichte van degenen die moeten vluchten voor geweld en natuurlijk ook met inachtneming van de belangen van de samenleving die de vluchtelingen moet opnemen. en dat betekent dat het bewaken van de schengen-buitengrenzen van vitaal belang is. want dan kunnen wij onderscheid maken, onderscheid tussen echte asielzoekers en vluchtelingen, tussen personen die pretenderen dat te zijn en arbeidsmigranten die zich niet als asielzoekers of vluchtelingen in deze grote stromen mogen mengen. daar zijn andere oplossingen voor. voorzitter, het beschermen van de buitengrenzen betekent ook dat het gemakkelijker wordt om criminelen en terroristen aan te pakken. bij open buitengrenzen kan de staat de burgers niet meer beschermen. het afstand doen van schengen is economisch een ramp en daarom moeten wij handelen. u herinnert zich ongetwijfeld nog al die vrachtwagens voor de grenzen. burgers kunnen dan niet meer vrij reizen. er is veel gesproken over sir winston churchill. churchill keek de vijand in de ogen en wist dat hij geen deals moest maken met agressieve staten. dat betekent dat wij poetin moeten dwingen het internationaal recht te respecteren en zich terug te trekken uit landen waar hij niet behoort te zijn. na de ramp met de mh17 heeft de regering gezegd: "degenen die verantwoordelijk zijn moeten voor de rechter komen" en we hebben groot-brittannië nodig binnen de europese unie om ook dat mogelijk te maken. (de spreker gaat in op een "blauwe kaart"-vraag overeenkomstig artikel 162, lid 8, van het reglement.)
"blue card" is the answer. that was my point. that means that we are indeed going to implement the plans which are before the commission. if the dutch presidency achieves that, it will be a successful presidency!
welcome to the prime minister. many dutch people have lost their faith in europe. that's not really a surprise either, because you said it yourself: "a promise is a sin", and politicians rarely keep their promises. europe is also lacking in ideals. because the only common shared value we seem to have left is the euro. and money doesn't buy happiness. if you look closely at european policy, you will see that europe is doing everything for the euro and the single market. the netherlands too! the netherlands thus seems to be a market trader who wants to protect its trade missions and its euro and its money. but europe is not the master of the market here, mr president. we see that single market and the desire for money in all the association agreements and free trade agreements. that is not the purpose of europe, is it? the prime minister said we don't need new ideals, but without ideals, you don't have a vision. how do you know which way to go if you don't know where you're going? i have no idea, mr president, where this dutch presidency is going. because if you look at the concrete plans and the concrete promises that have been made to us for example in the last week, the only one who was very clear is minister van dam, who said: 'animal welfare is a high priority for the dutch presidency'. but what will the netherlands do? wouldn't it be nice if that was clear for once? would it not be nice if the netherlands ensured that romanian stray dogs were no longer killed and persecuted? that the castration of pigs without anaesthesia should be stopped and the long journeys of animals reduced? mr president, that would be very, very good. do what you promised and end the suffering of animals. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr lundgren mentioned the referendum and i can still hear a little fear in his words that it will end well. at the moment the 'no' camp is only prepared to do one thing to motivate people in the netherlands to vote 'no' and that is to put mr juncker's face on the posters. that should be enough in itself, so that the netherlands knows what it is up to. but we can still say, and i will be very brief, how he conducts his policy, namely, with a small number of decisions, to make things so complex that we cannot go back. is that, mr lundgren, what might give you a little bit of peace of mind?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, let me also start by thanking minister fabius for his superb role in paris in negotiating this agreement. it is truly a historic agreement that gave a clear signal that the world is, in an irreversible way, going towards a low carbon economy. although i do agree with all those who say that paris was just an agreement on paper, we should not underestimate the value of paper. we needed this paper agreement in order to come to the real action on the ground. talking about action, just like peter liese, i would like to emphasise that we do need to do more than we agreed upon in paris, not only to stay below the 2°c but – even more importantly – to come near the 1.5°c. and talking about actions, i would like to concentrate on the eu actions. we do have the eu policies in place, but are they sufficient, given the paris agreement? what about carbon leakage? the idea of carbon leakage is based on the assumption that the rest of the world is not doing what we are doing. that is going to change now. so what are we going to do about carbon leakage now? what about the 2020, 2030 and 2050 targets, given the 1.5°c benchmark? i am really looking forward to the comments from minister fabius on whether he believes that the eu should step up its efforts. finally, i would like to talk about competitiveness because, if the paris agreement made one thing clear to our economy, it is that low carbon will be more competitive than high carbon and that is a very crucial notion. to give you one example, we had a historic moment this week at the amsterdam stock exchange, where one company that is leading in sustainability, unilever, for the first time in history became more valuable than a company that it is not seen as one of those leaders, royal dutch shell. it was a really historic moment which i believe was much more than a coincidence. talking about competitiveness, minister fabius, i am slightly concerned here because europe is falling behind in its investment in clean technology. so my clear question to you is: do you believe that, in order to safeguard european competitiveness, we should step up our efforts towards a low carbon economy in europe?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr fabius, thank you very much for coming to strasbourg. i have not had the opportunity to congratulate you on the outcome of the climate conference in paris last month. i'd like to do that on this one. you probably know the lyrics to a billie holiday song, "the difficult will do right now, the impossible may take a little while". that statement applies here as well. the difficult part is done, now the impossible is done. and there's a lot to do. europe must show more ambition. we must definitively move away from fossil fuels and switch to alternative, sustainable sources of energy. we need to be smarter and more economical with our energy. the isolation of housing would be a good start for the member states and it would also be a lot of work. the low price of oil is a good reason for countries to abolish the subsidy for fossil fuels, you said in le monde last week. i wholeheartedly support that. but let us be honest, it will not come from the dutch presidency. i asked secretary of state sharon dijksma last week what they were going to do to implement the climate agreement, but she refused to go into that. this morning we heard our prime minister mark rutte and he only wants to develop the single market further. there is nothing wrong with investing in the development of technological development, as you yourself have suggested, but we cannot count on that. europe must show leadership and make a radical commitment to renewable energy and raise ambition. your chairmanship of the conference of parties will continue until the next conference in marrakech in 2016 and i would like to call on you to help achieve the impossible. 2015 was the year of negotiations and decisions, you said, also in le monde. 2016 must be the year of implementation and action. our diplomacy remains highly mobilized. i hope that in this task you will take europe and the dutch presidency on a more ambitious programme than the one we have now.
for the enf group last week in germany, what was already known to everyone was demonstrated: the media are at the mercy of the ruling political elite. if it's about refugees, it should be positive, if it's about the climate, it should be a doomsday scenario. and the commission's spin doctor didn't have much trouble linking those two elements together and introducing the concept of climate refugee. 'climate refugee' means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it didn't work out that way. the effect of this so-called climate refugee was really only to warm up cologne and other european cities and to further cool down the enthusiasm for the eu. and especially with the latter i am very happy.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the people in yemen are slowly dying of hunger and disease and they are wiped out by bombings by the coalition that is ‘saudi-led’, but it is followed by the us and the uk. prime minister cameron this week said: ‘we are trying to do everything we can to make sure that the work done by saudi arabia is properly targeted’. well, obviously this is not working. it is a disgrace that your proposals – and by this i mean those of the dutch government, to have an inquiry into the war crimes perpetrated in yemen through the un – were actively boycotted by saudi arabia, and also that france and the uk did not support the netherlands. the eu, if it wants to be strong, needs a common position. in the committee on foreign affairs you spoke of exporting stability which i believe is a noble goal, but it should start by the eu seeking to end the export of weapons to saudi arabia. i would like to ask you whether you are willing to work towards an embargo in the council, at least of bombs, fighter jets and combat helicopters, and whether you are willing to pressure anyone who may be using cluster bombs, which are disproportionate and are allegedly used in yemen. i want to ask whether you agree that the violence in yemen underlines the need for the eu to review its relationship with saudi arabia and actually make it more even-handed with the relationship we have with the islamic republic of iran. after the nuclear deal, there is room to engage that country also with regard to ending the violence in yemen. iran, like saudi arabia, must be pushed to be a part of the solution and end the violence in the middle east. lastly, the blockades of sea, land and air have hampered humanitarian aid delivery which is so desperately needed and this hampering kills people, according to doctors without borders, who also claim that people have stopped coming to hospitals because they believe these have been targeted in a worrying pattern. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you, mr tannock, for your question. i think there are two issues in my remarks which may have been confused. one is the proposal by the dutch government – i am sure minister koenders can elaborate if that is necessary – that was supposed to be executed by the un and which was successfully blocked – i would say unfortunately, because i think an independent inquiry into the crimes perpetrated is key. what i was citing in terms of a pattern of targeted attacks on hospitals is a claim that is made by the respected international ngo ‘doctors without borders’. i was not attributing that observation to the dutch government but citing what ‘doctors without borders’ has said it observes.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, the situation in the southeast of turkey is very worrying. since the fighting between the pkk and the state security forces restarted this summer, the situation on the ground is deteriorating still further. imagine living in the silopi, cizre or sur districts. most people left their houses in a hurry when an open-ended, round-the-clock curfew was declared in early december. at that time, more than 200 000 people had to flee. heavy fighting is going on day and night between the security forces and the pkk youth militias who have built barricades and dug trenches in the middle of these neighbourhoods. the anti-terrorism operations heavily affect the civilian population: not being able to leave your house for more than 40 days; so-called esedullah forces who intimidate the local population; and an increasing number of civilian deaths, including of children and elderly people. how is it possible that a 16-year-old boy can bleed to death on the streets without receiving any medical aid? the attacks by the pkk last week killing police officers and their family members can in no way be justified, but why are there crackdowns on peaceful protesters? in this regard, i am also gravely concerned about the intimidation and prosecution of more than 1 000 academics who signed a petition calling for peace. how can reasonable people calling for the violence to stop be labelled traitors and promoters of terrorism? the right of turkey to fight against terrorism is not questioned here today. the general feeling, however, is that the operations are a collective punishment rather than aiming at restoring public order. it is time that the eu made a strong and determined call for a ceasefire and for the peace talks to be restarted. the curfews must be lifted and those people who can be part of a peace campaign must be empowered and supported.
the western values of freedom, democracy and human rights are incompatible with islam, with islamic turkey. turkey proves this every day by first imprisoning political opponents and then silencing critical journalists. and now it's shooting and terrorizing its own civilian population in the southeast. the commission, thinking that ankara's beast will stop refugees, is turning a blind eye to these crimes against humanity and its blackmail policy. i ask mr hahn: do you really think that those millions of refugees who were safe in their turkish camps were blown by the wind towards the eu or were they pushed by the turkish government? you must stop supporting the ottoman empire and its expansion to the north sea. what happened to the armenians, what is happening to the kurdish population is our priority. let me be perfectly clear: turkey is not part of europe. condemn turkey and put an end to the negotiations on its accession to the european union.
madam president, the deal on migration that mr timmermans rushed through at the most unfortunate moment seems to be the reason why the very dangerous situation in the south-east of turkey is being met with deafening silence from the eu and its member states, and that must end. many topics other than migration need to be addressed – human rights and the rule of law and, crucially, the eu must call on the akp government to return to the peace negotiating table with the pkk, and they should end the disproportionate collateral damage on civilians. terrorism can never be justified and the democratic path for the kurdish people in turkey is the key alternative that must be given room, and when academics call for an end to violence that is their freedom. it is essential for the eu to find in turkey a reliable partner as a candidate member state, as a nato partner, and as an active member of the coalition against isis. that should be the priority of targets. let us make sure and be cautious that counter-terrorism is not used as an excuse to restrict the freedoms and rights of people in turkey altogether.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the european union needs stable neighbours, but also a democratic russia would need stable neighbours. the russians do of course the opposite: they destabilise. it is in the interests of all that we talk with the three countries we mentioned to help them, to assist them, and the agreements we speak about are vital in this respect. a stable economy, economic growth, the re-establishment of the rule of law, the fight against corruption – and we should, of course, financially support them, and we do, but every euro spent should be accounted for. this would mean that in a few years’ time these countries will be able to export stability and not only consume stability. i have visited the three countries also on a party-to-party basis and i am positive about the results we are seeing there. much must be done, can be done and should be done. i think that my colleagues in this parliament who have worked together with the parties in moldova to form a new government, have done a great deal. we should thank them for that, and all the association agreements should be ratified, including the association agreement with ukraine. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the people who know my position in dutch politics know that i do not think that referenda are the right way to make decisions, because normally in a referendum it is not about the issue, it is about whether you like the government or not. the dutch government should look at the results of the referendum, and it has its own responsibility. i hope that the government will take its own responsibility. of course, in the meantime we will fight for the fact that we want to convince our citizens to vote ‘yes’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– there are no dutch soldiers on foreign soil in the european union, not in your country or other countries. so it is russia which has to explain and has to account for what it did and does, and a democratic russia – we hope that the country becomes democratic – that is good for russia and for the russians. that is an ideal, but they have to do it themselves, there i agree with you, but we may help them.
on 6 april, the dutch will go to the polls to vote in a referendum on the association agreement with ukraine. the eurocrats in brussels pretend that a vote against that association agreement is a vote for war and a vote against democracy and against progress. but this association agreement is not about democracy for ukrainians at all. this association agreement is about trade and growth, more trade, more europe and more space for multinationals. and in the growing european union, we see ambition and standards declining. equal opportunities seems like a magic word, but we already see, for example, that europe is subsidizing mega-stalls in ukraine. more animals, more products, and products that have long been banned here in europe, like foie gras and live battery eggs. we allow these products on our market cheaply. so if the netherlands says no to the association agreement in the referendum, europe cannot avoid it. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr hazekamp has already indicated: on 6 april the dutch people will go to the polls to vote in the referendum on ukraine. that's an exciting moment. our foreign minister, mr koenders, has already outlined how the dutch government will tackle this campaign. but you're curious to see how the "no" camp will approach the campaign. it is not yet fully known, but there seems to be a consensus to do just one thing, and that is to show mr juncker's picture as often as possible. that should be enough. because the dutch people know enough when they see mr juncker's face: lying, twisting, drinking and more lying. we're finished. the commission will probably think it is clever enough to bring this to a successful conclusion. but i assure you that the dutch people are many times smarter and that will soon be seen.
association agreements help the eu to make all kinds of agreements with countries, conditions for trade, rules on human rights and the rule of law. although ukraine is an important partner for the eu, it is certainly not the only country with which we have such agreements, from israel to chile, from egypt to south africa. in the netherlands, particular attention is being paid to the agreement with ukraine because a referendum is due to be held on 6 april on whether the netherlands' signature, with the support of the government and the house of representatives, should remain under these agreements. some people fear that the agreement will quietly lead to ukraine's accession. but the opposite is true. it is precisely when a country is not eligible for accession that an association agreement is a very useful and good way of establishing agreements. it is good that the eu is helping ukraine to tackle corruption and reform its economy and society. a stable and prosperous ukraine is good for the people of the country itself, but also good for europeans. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
these treaties, which the european union has signed with georgia, ukraine and moldova, are the most ambitious of their kind and these association agreements should ensure greater stability, democracy and prosperity throughout the european continent, which is also in our interest. many difficult reforms have already been carried out in these countries over the past year. but if you look, you'll see that there are still three persistent problems. one of them is corruption. the fight against corruption must be the basis for all progress. moldova and ukraine in particular are still facing this problem. there is still a real shift to be made in the legal sector and unfortunately, the winner takes all mentality remains prevalent in these three countries. another thing they have in common is the threat and aggression of their great neighbour russia. it is good that the eu is concluding these ambitious treaties with these three countries, which are not about membership but about intensive cooperation. i hope that on 6 april the majority of the dutch people will vote in favour of the association agreement with ukraine.
currently, the christian syrian city of sadad is under direct threat from is. so men left behind today defend this city. they and other christian self-defence units in the region - it is happening in other places too - deserve all, indeed all, concrete european support, including military training. sadly, sadad is learning another lesson. years earlier, in october 2013, the fighters of the free syrian army and jabhat al-nusra carried out a real massacre among the residents of sadad. dozens of dead, not to mention tortured. in short, religious minorities in syria are considered by all militias to be supporters of bashar al-assad and therefore their lives are not safe. it is high time that the eu and its member states address the plight of religious refugees, in the region itself and within its own borders. there will certainly be no lack of christian assistance there and here.
for the enf group today we are talking about the increased threat of terrorism, and it seems to come as a surprise to many of you that europe is the target of islamic terror. that is because, despite the attacks in paris, copenhagen, brussels, madrid and london, there is still the wrong analysis of why the west is under attack from those who have targeted us. despite the many deaths that have already been inflicted in the name of the islamic state, you deny that these terrorists take their inspiration from the koran. despite the fact that it has been established that terrorists use the invasion of asylum to enter the european union, some here still dismiss it as hysteria. and despite the acute threat of attacks throughout western europe, the political elite here still continues to believe in the utopia called multiculturalism. the only correct analysis, mr president, is that islam is the greatest danger, islam is seeking world domination. but there is another great danger in europe: the danger of the cowardly politically correct elite, who dare not call the animal by its name, but who, through an open borders policy, allow the islamic invasion to flood the european continent. it is therefore incomprehensible to me that the many victims of terror, assault and rape are still no reason to put an end to this invasion. in fact, in the first few weeks of this month alone, another thirty-one thousand asylum seekers have arrived in greece, among them certainly jihadists and hordes of testosterone bombs full of contempt for women. and they are grateful to use schengen. without borders, there is no security, and it is not a question of whether, but when we can expect the next attack or organized mass assault. so if you really take this increased threat of terrorism and the safety of the people of our european countries seriously, then it's time you recognize that the only solution in the fight against terrorism is to close national borders, send all these so-called asylum seekers back to where they came from, and stop the islamization of the european continent.
i heard the european commissioner talking about a proposal he wants to make to combat terrorist financing. you have announced this a few times, but i would like to understand what the purpose of this is. if you look at the attacks in new york, nine eleven, they were actually a bargain. it's weird to say, but all in all, they didn't cost much. the boston marathon bombings were also a bargain. besides, the paris attacks didn't cost much in the end. of course, there is a lot of money being embezzled by daesh, for example, but this is particularly the case in syria, in the middle east, for example, to pay the salaries of its own fighters. so what do we want? we are not going to be able to do that. unfortunately, little money leaves little trace, so i don't understand why. or do we want to have a sort of pick-and-choose policy, which i can understand? take away the money, take away their ability to commit terrorism. if it's cheap, it's not going to be effective. so explain it to me, because i'm interested in what the goal is.
absolutely mr president, there were 40 – more than 40 – people standing up and you did not count correctly. so we want it to be checked.
author.– mr president, the hydrogen bomb test that north korea performed in early january has been condemned by the council and the un security council. we, too, strongly condemn the test, which is a direct threat to stability and peace on the korean peninsula. further provocations should be avoided at all costs by abandoning nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, and an end should be sought to the provocations through the six-party talks, which should be resumed. another key point of concern to us is that the human rights situation and the humanitarian situation are very, very dire. people face systematic repression, and the commission of inquiry has established that crimes against humanity were perpetrated. we need more concrete international action to end the impunity and to bring the perpetrators to justice. we should also consider more targeted sanctions. it is essential for the international community to convince the chinese government to use its influence, both economically and politically, to push north korea to de-escalate. it should also make an effort to accept refugees from north korea.
we have been advocating for years for debates to make the violence of refugees against people in the countries of europe a topic of discussion. that is what we have always voted against in this house. it seems to me very unfair to all those victims, those thousands, thousands, thousands of victims, to those more than a thousand women in cologne, to leave that alone and now talk about a few incidents. so we're against it.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr marias, and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their pleasant cooperation on this report. in this report, parliament expresses serious concern about the effects of quantitative easing, which puts 60 billion euro of financial growth hormones into the economy every month. mr draghi, you have said it many times and you have repeated it today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. economic reforms and sound fiscal policies are also needed. you mentioned it as the third point in your speech today. do you agree that the situation in these areas is not going in the right direction? in many countries, the labour market is still closed. it seems that in several places the mental switch from a job for life to a life of jobs still needs to be made. the adjustment of the retirement age is not yet in order everywhere and there are mainly large countries which have the highest debt and the highest deficits, combined with the lowest growth and also the lowest inflation. these countries are the ones who are trying the hardest to get out of the budget agreements. not a good development! in view of all this, i wonder whether it is wise in these circumstances to continue and expand quantitative enlargement. this concern is reinforced by the strong negative side effects of this type of monetary stimulus on the stability of pension funds and financial markets in europe. if we don't take the extremely low oil prices into account, inflation is not that dramatically low. i therefore wonder whether it is necessary to add another shovel of quantitative enlargement. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr rosati, you have made a most astonishing speech. you hold mr draghi's hand over his head and you say: the ecb has done its job well. that is very surprising to me, because the ecb has not done its job well at all. the ecb is to ensure price stability and inflation at a level of around 2%. inflation has not been at that level since 2013. how can you say that mr draghi has done his job well? it's not right!
as far as i am concerned, this is the last annual report by president mario draghi. mario needs to move. he has not achieved the ecb's objective of bringing inflation down to 2%. not since 2013. in fact, we've been at near-zero inflation for months. the deflationary spell is knocking on the door and the price of oil continues to fall, with both a declining demand and an increasing supply. so we're going to be in deflation, too. but what do we see? the ecb continues to buy up debt securities, hoping to boost inflation. you can't do that, even if you double your program. because what happens? debt continues to rise, necessary reforms are not being carried out. stop this program! you've lost your credibility. i'm asking you to draw your conclusions and step aside. mario needs to move.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. europe is facing major challenges at the moment. we know the problems of the flow of refugees and the rise of nationalism. however, we in the transport sector see enormous opportunities in the trade in services agreement, the tisa agreement. if you look at what we are doing in the field of rail transport, but especially maritime transport, europe has great opportunities in the tisa agreement, also with its other services. i would also like to draw attention to the social aspects of transport workers. they are a little nervous about too much influence from outside europe. and i would like to draw particular attention to the position of the postal services and public transport. but overall i wish the commissioner, and also mrs reding, every success in finalising the tisa agreement.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. i know mrs kirton-darling as someone who is very much in favour of trade union rights, but we also heard commissioner malmström say that she does not want to include ilo rights, ilo conventions, in the tisa convention. i wonder if she will accept the tisa convention if the ilo, the eight basic conventions are not included in the tisa convention.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the european union is the world leader when it comes to the export of services. we expect the sector to become even more important. our service providers are competitive, as the eu itself is already very open and foreign companies are treated equally on our market. there is therefore a lot to be gained by seeing more countries reciprocally opening up their markets to eu service providers and having a level playing field across a larger group of countries. in fact, we would ultimately like tisa to become a multilateral agreement. similarly, services are being developed in new areas, such as the digital economy, which will require the rules to be updated. everyone with internet access could in principle offer a service in a third country. the trade in services agreement should contribute to clear rules to ensure that principles such as fair competition, but also fundamental rights, are respected. in today’s report the parliament calls on the commission to aim for an ambitious agreement, especially in sectors such as e-commerce, telecommunication, financial services, procurement and transport. i think – and this is important to underline amidst all the concerns that also have to be addressed today – that we have every reason to be self-confident. this parliament does confirm existing legislation and standards are not lowered and free trade should follow rules. therefore, public services and audiovisual services are also confirmed to be excluded in our report, and tisa cannot force national governments to break open monopolies on the provision of, for example, water or electricity. i am happy to see that we have, together with the shadow rapporteurs and all colleagues, worked on an interim report on these very important negotiations, and we hope that you will continue to represent the eu with the ambition and self-confidence that we should have here to make sure that the rules-based system is strengthened and that more countries come on board and that trade-in-services relations become more reciprocal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– what we have put in this resolution that deals with the trade-in-services negotiations that are ongoing, is that we would like to see all the other partners to this agreement ultimately respect labour rights as enshrined under the ilo. but i agree with my colleague from the uk, jude kirton-darling, when she says that the practice of respecting standards is more important than seeking to underline demands on paper which may not be realistic. so, indeed, strengthening the rules-based system in trade, including trade in services, is there to raise the bar when it comes to standards, including labour rights.
tisa, the trade and services agreement, is the ugly little brother of ttip and ceta. and those treaties didn't win any beauty awards either. tisa is another example of how the european union is at the mercy of multinationals. this time it's the really good friends of services. there is nothing wrong with stimulating the economy, but only if it is at the expense of labour rights, democratic control and the economy of other countries. that's what tisa is going to do. tisa forces countries to open their markets, it puts public services on the back burner, and it makes it impossible to back down as insight advances. i would urge members to vote for amendment no 20 so that we call on the commission to withdraw from the negotiations. if you really want to protect public services, tisa is the wrong way to go. i would also like to call for the abolition of the so-called ratchet clause, amendment no 29, and for the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises, amendment no 49. and i would ask you to also submit the agreement to the national parliaments, as described in amendment no 53. and especially for mrs. kirton-darling: amendment no 36 to the basic ilo treaties as a binding condition.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, dumping products on the eu market under the market price is not allowed and should be met with appropriate measures. the question is how the eu can best address the inevitable expiry of the protocol on china’s accession to the wto that was signed 15 years ago. the question before us is not whether we believe china has a market economy where prices are set by supply and demand: it does not. the question before us is how we should address illegal trade practices by a country that is also an important trading partner. my group believes we must address this complex and technical matter with a cool head. some people have already taken very emotional positions; others wish to use this moment to enforce their wish-list of protectionist measures. but they seem to forget that there are both importers and exporters in europe, and that the economic angle is not the only one to consider. i believe we need a thorough impact assessment and a legal analysis, and that we must strengthen the rules-based system of trade. particularly in relation to china, it is key that we too, on the eu side, practise what we preach and that our solutions should be wto- proof. it does mean that we need effective trade defence instruments to address subsidies, dumping and other illegal practices by china or any other country for that matter. i believe that we must address this issue proactively, and i do not believe in the proposals by those who think we should best leave it up to wto arbitration to decide.
the granting of market economy status to china has, as has already been said, major consequences. after all, there are countless jobs at stake. there should be no automatic allocation and the commission is well advised to study the approach of the united states, canada and australia in this respect and to use elements of this for its own approach. the gradual granting of market economy status to certain industries that meet the conditions could be an option. in addition, china could make concessions in a package deal. i am thinking of self-restrictions on exports and a better playing field for european companies in exchange for market economy status. the eu must also fully honour china's wto accession pledge. commissioner, please do not let our companies and workers down! i wish you every success in this complex matter.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for the very careful procedure and the information we have received this evening. as a member of the delegation for relations with china, as a member of the committee on international trade, but also as a dutchman, i attach great importance to this dossier. i think we can all agree that for the proper development of the world economy it would be wise for china to develop into a genuine market economy. we have the wto agreements and we have the eu's five additional criteria. but if china does not cooperate, we cannot ask our voters and our people to accept both solar panel dumping and steel dumping at this time. i wish the commissioner every success with the careful evaluations and i hope that it will be all right. but i have my doubts.
madam president, after the previous european biodiversity strategy completely failed, i became rapporteur in 2011 on biodiversity, and we agreed here that this time it would be different. in this plenary hall we all emphasised the enormous importance of biodiversity for mankind. from the far left all the way to the far right, this time would be different, and yes, the reform of the fisheries policy was successful and made it much more sustainable. but what about the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy? there we failed. we did not make it more sustainable. so here we are in 2016, half way, and one conclusion stands: the eu fails seriously in achieving its biodiversity strategy. simply muddling through is no solution any more. so, commissioner – and the absent council – do not let 500 million europeans down, and please take serious steps on biodiversity.
the world faces a huge challenge to produce food while reducing the pressure on our ecosystem. and the only way to do that is to work smartly with nature, which is something that farmers and gardeners have a natural ability to do. it is precisely through new technologies and applications that we are producing more and more food, while at the same time reducing our environmental impact and improving the health of our animals. i therefore believe that the greatest threat to our biodiversity is not agriculture and horticulture. the greatest danger is incomprehension and lack of knowledge. there's no one solution to conserving biodiversity, but by doing modern farming, we reduce the pressure on our natural resources and we need less land per kilogram of food. a rigid interpretation of european rules, such as in the netherlands around natura 2000, causes nature conservation to be locked in. only by working together, using common sense and engaging all stakeholders will you create the best solutions to meet biodiversity goals.
member of the commission.– madam president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament for the very open and very strong commitment and support for the protection of our natural capital. i believe that, once adopted, this timely solution – together with the council conclusions delivered last december – can very much help steer the eu towards achieving its biodiversity targets. the commission’s mid-term review, the council conclusions and parliament’s report all send a consistent message about the critical importance of the effective integration of biodiversity objectives with, and into, all the other sectors. the european parliament has a very important and crucial role to play in reaching eu biodiversity targets, both in raising awareness of the value of biodiversity by actually integrating biodiversity objectives into other eu policies and by actually transforming the calls for this resolution into concrete decisions on eu policies and funding. i could not agree more with the comments that we need a broader and full support of all stakeholders. this is very important. any legislation without enough support is probably the hardest to implement. i also agree with a number of members who expressed their opinion that the member states have an important and most responsible role to implement. member states, as was said by catherine bearder, have to step up their implementation. ms boylan asked me whether i can declare my position. i have to say that any position on this will not be the prerogative of only me, commissioner vella, but will be a collegial decision of the commission based on the evidence gathered in the fitness check exercise. my objective is not to undermine existing legislation but to make sure we have all the necessary tools in place to achieve the 2020 target. i took note of what ms auken said. we have worked together in the past and i truly know how genuine she is. i can assure her that all members of the college, including first vice-president timmermans, are as much in favour of nature and biodiversity as are all of us. to the many comments from the honourable members who pointed out that we have to involve farmers if biodiversity targets are to be achieved: yes, i agree. we have been talking about implementation, but let us not forget that the state of the environment report, the state of the nature report, and the mid-term review itself, identify and point to a number of causes, not simply implementation. one of the causes which all the reports have identified is not agriculture but some of the bad practices in agriculture. in the implementation of the current cap, the emphasis in the next years should be on ensuring that the potential of biodiversity support measures is used fully at the national and local levels. given their role in managing landscapes, farmland and nature, farmers should be supported and rewarded for protecting and restoring biodiversity, and for the services they deliver to the public. achieving the eu biodiversity targets is, after all, as important for society at large as it is for the farming sector itself. i think, as ms köstinger said, farmers have to be part of the solution. i would like to finish on a positive note. the conclusions of the biodiversity mid-term strategy give grounds for both concern and optimism. while it is critical to reflect and act on the causes of insufficient progress, we should keep sight of what has been achieved. we have put in place important policy frameworks to build on. we have accumulated a true wealth of positive experiences to learn from and an increasing pool of knowledge to underpin decision-making. we have a growing network of stakeholders and citizens who are very committed to protecting and enhancing biodiversity. we need to capitalise on this to put the eu back on track to reaching our biodiversity targets. my last thought is that the directives that we have been discussing are not an end in themselves. they are a means to an end, the end being achieving our 2020 targets. whether we review our directives or not, i believe that we have to work harder. we have to work closely together to achieve this end.
in writing. as much as a quarter of all european animal species are threatened with extinction and many ecosystems are at risk. despite the european nature policy, the recovery of nature is totally inadequate. the protection of nature must be strengthened. however, natural recovery can only be successful if the causes of the loss are removed. one of the greatest threats to biodiversity is intensive livestock farming. the dutch pig sector alone is already causing $34 million in damage from wildlife loss. the huge nitrogen emissions pollute surface water, air and soil, reducing biodiversity in the vicinity of livestock factories. but the destructiveness of intensive livestock farming extends to the rain forests of latin america, which must give way to giant fields of maize and soybeans. and all to feed the billions of animals in europe's bio-industry. a shift to sustainable agriculture and livestock farming is necessary to halt the loss of valuable nature and the extinction of thousands of animal and plant species. therefore, brussels' attempts to undermine existing nature conservation laws should be stopped immediately. the european birds and habitats directives are important and should not be relaxed, but rather strengthened and better enforced to stop the dramatic loss of biodiversity in europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. it's nice that the platform against black labor is coming. such exploitation is not acceptable in the european union. the commissioner said that many small selfemployed people complained about unfair competition from companies employing black workers. even the functioning of the internal market as a whole is being undermined by black-marketing. i am glad to see that many of the proposals from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have been adopted. it is a pity that parliament is not automatically represented on the platform. i therefore hope that the commission will report to parliament annually on the platform, even though it is only formally obliged to do so regularly. i would have liked to see the platform also promote operational cooperation, but there is no explicit provision for this. i also think it is a bit silly that member states should appoint a representative but not be obliged to participate in all the activities of the platform. nevertheless, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to congratulate mr pirinski on the outcome of the trialogue.
in these times of a choice between no work, undeclared work or flex work, many people are between a rock and a hard place and it is all the more important that abuses such as undeclared work and pseudo-independence are brought to light and that workers can simply exercise their existing formal rights. i would therefore like to thank mr pirinski and his team for the great effort they have made to create this platform to combat undeclared work. it is a first step in the right direction in the fight against the abuse of workers, against the abuse of social security and the undermining of a level playing field between companies. it is also hoped that this platform will increase understanding and improve cooperation between member states. those are all positive points. it is also positive that the participation of social partners as members of this platform will help to identify problems in specific sectors in specific countries. it is therefore important that all member states commit themselves to this approach. in belgium, for example, this approach has already resulted in secretary of state tommelein receiving very large sums of additional social contributions. the platform is therefore part of the puzzle and i ask the commissioner: where's the labour market integration package? because in addition to this platform and the enforcement directive, we also need proposals to close the gaps in the legislation.
there is a package here to tackle tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning and we strongly support that objective, because we agree that everyone should pay their fair share of taxes, citizens, smes, but certainly also multinationals, who should not be left out of the loop. so it looks like the right things are being done here, but that doesn't get you there. because you don't just have to do the right things, you have to do the right things right. i therefore regard it as a missed opportunity that no proper impact assessment has been carried out. i regret that the international context in which we must operate to remain competitive has not been taken into account. and that there are still some vagueness, some broad definitions, for example of the anti-abuse provision, which can still lead to ambiguity and differences of interpretation, which will lead to a court case. and we'll create jobs, but only for lawyers. and that's not what we're talking about. so we are going to look at these proposals very carefully and where necessary we will try to improve them. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i cannot assess that at this stage. but i'm sorry too. therefore, especially in the light of vice-president timmermans' better regulation agenda, i regret that not all these aspects, including for smes, have been included, because then we would be able to appreciate it better. now we as parliamentarians have to do that again with our own impact assessments through our discussions with the whole field. i think that's a missed opportunity.
the commission's plans are coming to fruition. they go far beyond what is agreed internationally. the commission's proposals are seriously affecting the business environment in europe. the commission says it is committed to a level playing field in europe. that is wonderful, of course, but it must be done. a ban on exemption from corporation tax for ports, such as that recently imposed on the netherlands by mr vestager, will not be lifted as long as other european countries can continue to give state aid to their ports. finally, the commission has repeatedly stated that it wants to establish a common consolidated corporate tax base. i am sceptical about that, because it is the start of a european taxation and it destroys healthy tax competition between countries. this, like the proposals mentioned earlier, makes europe a european unity sausage. there is no support for it and it does not do justice to our diversity. don't do that!
mr president, there is indeed a promising historic opportunity to end the industry of tax avoidance. this industry does not lead to fair competition among countries, as some in this house may suggest. no, indeed: this industry makes use of the jungle of national tax laws in which the fittest survive. that means that the largest companies do not end up paying their fair share but pay hardly any taxes at all. so i welcome this initiative by the commission. i am, to say the least, surprised by the absence of the dutch presidency, and i ask myself whether this opportunity is being exploited to the maximum. i will make two critical remarks. first, there is still the incentive for each member state under these proposals to bring into effect lower taxes. my specific question for the commission is: what happened to the idea of a minimum effective tax rate that was put forward by a coalition of large member states? second, even if this proposal blocks some ways of avoiding tax, there will be new ways developed by the industry of tax avoidance. it is clear that we need public, country—by—country reporting to end this industry once and for all.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. the european elite wants to hold on to the dream of a european union without frontiers, where there is room for everyone, at all costs. a real nightmare, because in 2016 the free movement of people and goods has become the free movement of terrorists, asylum seekers and kalashnikovs. a nightmare, because millions of happiness seekers are crossing the border to free housing, free health care, and free money. you are here worrying about the demise of schengen and other conventions from political prehistory, when you should be worrying about the demise of europe. i would say, wake up! schengen is bankrupt! the european union is a fiasco! listen to our people who are sick and tired of your open-border policy. i would like to ask the dutch presidency, mr koenders, who is here today: close the dutch borders! protect the dutch! protect our freedom, our security and our future!
this is an opportunity to clarify a statement made by the european commission's first vice-president, frans timmermans. last week frans timmermans said in a highly-charged interview in the dutch media that 60 percent of the migrants arriving in the european union are not refugees, but economic migrants. in the meantime, eurostat, frontex, iom, unhcr, easo and your own information have contradicted this. but frans timmermans has been silent for a week, and while he is silent he is quoted, he is repeated, he is abused and he further undermines support for the reception of refugees in my own country and throughout the european union. so this is the moment to be clear. are the statements made by frans timmermans on these percentages the official position of the european commission or not?
mr president, a lot has been said about what should be done, but maybe we should ask ourselves the question: how will history judge us? what will the history books write about these debates, let’s say 100 years from now? i think they will say that the year 2016 started on a very positive note with a real miracle on new year’s day, because we found that in europe, there are 507 million feminist, humanist, civilised, enlightened people, who have respect for women overnight. so that is fantastic. but no, seriously colleagues, testosterone has no religion, and i would like to point that out to my swedish colleague, who apparently has forgotten about the vikings, who went around europe raiding, raping and pillaging. but the history books will also write about the complete inability, the complete paralysis of the biggest economy in the world in trying to solve a manageable problem – because this is a big challenge, yes, but it is entirely a question of managing. the history books will write about the biggest economy in the world just looking the other way when children are drowning, when children are being abducted by criminal gangs in order to be abused, when women have to give birth in fields. the biggest economy in the world, sitting on its hands and not acting, and in the meantime wasting time talking about things like national sovereignty. well national sovereignty does not pay the rent. we do not need more red cards. we do not need more paralysis. do we want to go down in history as a black period, a period of paralysis, or do we want to be the architects of a big leap forward and a new period? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is not rocket science really. i think there is a massive pile of solutions on the table. this parliament has proposed solutions. the commission has proposed solutions. the council has even decided on a couple of solutions, but it would be really nice if they would actually execute what they have decided, if we could speed up the decision-making process. we do not have years, we do not have decades; we have to take decisions now. it is not about new proposals, new ideas: it is about action. it is about decisions. it is about carrying out what has actually been agreed. that is what i propose, dear colleague.
"blue card" question. what is it? i was a little triggered when i heard you say: there are people here who are advocating unlimited immigration and tourist visas for refugees or asylum seekers. i'd like to know who heard you advocate that, because i didn't hear that. i think it's good to keep the discussion pure.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask mrs winberg after this speech whether it is not surreal for her to be in a debate about violence against refugees, against asylum seekers, when in her country, after hundreds, perhaps thousands of incidents in asylum seekers' centres where aid workers have been attacked, it is now the first time that a fatality has occurred amongst those aid workers. a swedish woman, as you know, was stabbed to death by a young asylum seeker. so my question to mrs winberg is: is it not strange to be in this debate when this has happened in your country?
minister koenders said at the beginning of the debate that how we deal with migrants reflects who we are. but does the minister realize that the way these fortune seekers treat our wives and children is just as telling of who they are? there's been another stabbing at the asylum centre in almere! mr. koenders, how come the assailants and the rapists are still eligible for housing? why are they not expelled immediately? president. - turkey is besieging us with millions of these fortune seekers and the union is now offering turkey three billion to stop this invasion. but the turks see our weakness and they demand more and more: five billion now! and the eu is being blackmailed. giving away money and crawling around doesn't buy security. turkey should not get 5 billion, 3 billion, not a penny! after all, we get nothing but misery in return. the borders must be closed, mr president, because blackmail by turkey is not the solution, it is part of the problem.
the situation at the moment is appalling and, commissioner avramopoulos, you used figures from the iom today to emphasise that again. that's right. your colleague, mr timmermans, - i regret that he is not here today - is also welcome to do a little math. for example, last week he claimed that 60 percent of the refugees entering europe come from areas that you cannot assume qualify for refugee status. it would mainly concern people from north africa, whereas frontex figures show that between 89 and 97 per cent of people who entered in december are from syria, iraq or afghanistan. so either frontex is wrong or the first vice-president of the european commission does not know the difference between an afghan and a moroccan. but in both cases the european commission is a fool. i would ask you to clarify that at least today. because clarity is crucial in this case. that is why i also have a question for minister koenders about the plan of his party leader, diederik samsom, in the hague. it has just been called the dutch plan by a colleague and i would also like to see that there is no misunderstanding about it. is the dutch presidency really going to put this plan into practice? or are we all here to agree that this was just a test balloon for the headlines?
while the european commission is working hard to formulate a common response to the refugee crisis, we see little of that in reality. the lack of solidarity within the eu is the root cause. the europe of viktor orbán, the old europe of the fences, is getting closer every day. last week, i finally heard a different sound from a european country. the dutch government launched an alternative plan to provide a safe legal route to europe for large numbers of refugees. there was talk of 250,000 resettlements a year. the socialist group is even allowed to be more ambitious. i also heard a government say that we should not be paralysed by a few troublemakers within the eu, but should now take the lead with the good countries. the illegal route operated by the smugglers must therefore become an unattractive alternative. how? we can argue about that. unfortunately, the commission had a reply ready and the plan was rejected in advance. how many alternatives do you think there will be to the europe of the fences? commissioner avramopoulos, can you explain why the european commission rejects the line of thought of this plan and can minister koenders explain how support for this plan is being sought within the council?
it's good to see mr. koenders and his team here. welcome to the club! there are piles of plans on the table for how the european union should deal with the refugee problem. and i would say: let's stop making any more plans. it's time to act! the netherlands, the president of the council, is due to hold a summit conference this month and - i say this as a protestant - it will be modelled on a papal election in vatican city. you're not coming out until a decision has been made and there's white smoke. the concept of warmth and control should be the guiding principles of this conference. europe welcomes people whose lives are at stake because of war or religious persecution. but there is no room for asylum seekers from, for example, morocco, algeria and albania. they can make a living in their own country. and let europe arrange its development aid so that it does well there too. finally, we must prevent turkey from being dragged into the eu at this very moment. for them and for the eu, a good neighbour programme is by far the best option.
author.– madam president, if you were to ask someone to make a list of top priorities of what is important in his or her life, there is a big chance that one’s health tops the list, and that is what this debate is about. it is about health, and that is why it is so important. the issue we are discussing here is very clear and straightforward. we have a legal text, called the regulation, and in this legal text there is a legally-binding mandate for the european commission to adopt scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors by december 2013. it is not written in chinese. we have many official languages in the eu, but chinese is not one of them. so it is very clear and straightforward: by december 2013, the european commission had to adopt scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors. i must say i can be extremely flexible if there are technical reasons for not being on time, but i am very inflexible when there are political reasons behind not meeting a deadline, and of course that is the case here. the court ruling is extremely clear: the commission should have adopted the scientific criteria in december 2013. to quote from the court ruling: ‘there is no provision of the regulation which requires an impact assessment’. so i am not against an impact assessment; i think it is a very valuable tool in this case too. but before starting an impact assessment, the commission should have adopted the scientific criteria. i understood that already in july 2013 they were ready, there somewhere on a big dust pile somewhere in the berlaymont building. i would say: get rid of the dust and table them as soon as possible – that is, within a few weeks.
you started well by saying that you would follow the law and the judgment of the court of justice. but then you became very unclear again about what is going on with the impact assessment. i'll make it very clear once again: the court of justice has said that only scientific criteria should apply. they were finished in 2013, so they can be published now. why do you need until the summer of 2016? is that because you want to wait for the impact assessment? if so, you are directly contradicting the judgment of the court of justice, which said that the impact assessment should not be used to determine the scientific criteria. if you do, you will be going against the judgment of the court of justice and that is a disgrace to the commission.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to express my deepest sympathies to the victims of the tragic incident that occurred recently during a clinical trial in france and to their families. i fully trust that the french authorities have taken all the necessary measures to address this situation and are doing their utmost to clarify exactly what happened. i am personally in close contact with the french minister of health to monitor the situation and any new developments related to the investigations. it is important that we all wait for the outcome of this investigation before drawing any conclusions. clinical trials are essential for the development of new medicines and to improve, compare and refine treatments using already—authorised medicines. clinical trials are often the last hope for patients suffering from rare or serious conditions. in areas such as paediatric oncology, for example, there are clearly established links between participation in clinical trials and the life expectancy of patients. it should not be forgotten that a certain risk is associated with any clinical trial. clinical research is a sector in which europe is a world leader. offering europeans patients the best, most innovative treatments under the highest standards of patient protection remains the main objective of regulation in this area. we can all agree that transparency is an essential component of clinical research. it should be possible to know which clinical trials are ongoing, where, by whom, what their purpose is and what are the recruitment criteria. some of this information is already available via the existing eu clinical trials register managed by the european medicines agency, with which i am in constant contact. furthermore, once a trial has been completed, its outcome – whether positive or negative – should be made publicly available. additionally, the european medicines agency (ema) has pro-actively engaged in a policy to release clinical study reports submitted to the agency as part of the application for marketing authorisation of human medicines before this summer. this will make europe a true frontrunner as regards the release of data concerning clinical trials. this transparency initiative creates a bridge from now until when the new clinical trial regulations become applicable. this will trigger real improvement as regards transparency. all information on clinical trials authorised by member states will be stored in a new european union database managed by ema, with some exceptions which were defined during the legislative process. the whole content of the european union database will be publicly available. furthermore, in cases of overriding public interest, all information concerning specific trials will immediately be made publicly available. the european union database is being developed by the european medicines agency. this it tool is crucial for the correct functioning of the new regulation. it will have to handle the flow of information concerning the thousands of clinical trials ongoing every day in europe. it certainly constitutes a complex and challenging it project. while understanding all the difficult technical challenges, i regret to say that this project is running behind schedule. all concerned parties – ema, member states and the commission – will have to step up efforts to make the eu database operational as soon as possible, in order to enable the full implementation of the new regulation. to date, there are no elements indicating that the application of the new regulation would have prevented this incident in france. i am sure that ema has, and will deploy, the necessary technical resources. the commission will monitor this closely. i also call on all member states, because cooperation between ema and the member states is sometimes very difficult. i call on them to scale up their constructive collaboration on this project. madam president, honourable members, let me conclude by underlining once again the importance of increased transparency of clinical trials in europe. this will be achieved under the new regulation on clinical trials. i appeal again to all interested parties to work constructively together in order for the regulation to become applicable as early as possible.
before a medicinal product is placed on the market and even before clinical trials take place, it is routinely tested on animals. and for each drug, thousands of animals are used, including rats, rabbits and dogs. the use of ape people is already banned in europe. animal testing is unethical, it causes a lot of pain and stress to the animals, but above all it is completely unreliable. the predictive value of animal models is extremely low, and there is no guarantee that drugs are safe because they have been tested on animals. the use of these unreliable tests puts human lives at risk, as was also shown in france last month. according to the french minister, this drug had been extensively tested on animals, even on chimpanzees. so i have two questions for the commissioner: is it true that these drugs have been tested on chimpanzees even though it's banned in europe? are you going to encourage the development of reliable models based on the human body? we can then stop the senseless animal experiments and at the same time prevent further casualties.
mr president, it is for the british people to decide whether this so-called deal is good enough for either an ‘in’ or an ‘out’ vote; but i personally think that there are actually much better reasons for the british to vote for ‘in’, because in these times of globalisation and the internet age, it would be better for britain to be in the european union for reasons of the economy and trade, but also security, police and justice cooperation, and the geopolitical position. i would like to say, in particular to all the self-proclaimed defenders of democracy on that side of the house – who have disappeared by now, incidentally – that this is not only for the british people. this affects all eu citizens and they, actually, do not have a say, and i do note that this deal contains a lot of, you know, red cards, emergency brakes, and i would say europe has got plenty of paralysis. we do not need more paralysis; we do not need more breaks. we actually need a stronger ability to act and face all the big challenges, and i hope that we will have the british on board for that purpose.
we are talking today about a possible brexit, but of course it is really about the dismantling of the eu, and that dismantling has already begun. i can imagine that for many of you, that's very difficult to accept. you've believed that for years, decades. that's why i'm helping you with reality rehab. my tip is: when it's quiet at home, stand in front of the mirror and say to yourself, "schengen is dead", slowly but clearly: "schengen is dead". do that ten times a day, that's my recipe. it's the brain adjusting to the new reality because things have changed. the shock will not be so great if schengen is abolished in a few weeks or months.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement concluded by the eu and the republic of moldova in november 2014 has led to further tensions in the region. in response, russia announced a ban on imports of products from moldova. the introduction of autonomous trade preferences and the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism in the association agreement with the republic of moldova are intended to limit the impact on the agricultural sector. however, this is not a matter of aid, but rather of retaliation against russia. the intensification of trade relations with moldova and the consequent increase in european influence in the region have major geopolitical consequences. it will further increase tensions between the european union and russia. international security, human rights and democracy are always more important than short-sighted trade policy. therefore, i voted against the association agreement in november 2014, against the introduction of autonomous trade preferences in december 2014 and now against the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism in the association agreement for the republic of moldova.
madam president, it is good to stand here to see the commitment of serbia to european integration. indeed, the commission concludes that serbia is building a track record on implementing the obligations in the stabilisation and association agreement (saa). the commitment to european integration is bearing fruit; in fact, negotiations opened in december. that is a good sign, and serbia has taken steps ranging from normalisation with its relations with kosovo to reducing the government budget, and it is good to see that. at the same time, opening negotiations and opening chapters is not the same as closing them or closing the negotiations. there is still a lot of work that needs to be done. let me highlight two of the points. last september i was at the gay pride parade in belgrade, and there was a cordon of policemen. i do not think they were there to protect the participants in the gay pride; they were there rather to protect the population of belgrade against the lgbts. this only shows that the position of lgbts is still very poor in serbia. secondly, freedom of the media, which is essential for any democracy, is still shaky. i have read the human rights watch report and there were many molestations of journalists and media workers reported in serbia. so a lot of work needs to be done. i thank david mcallister for a very balanced, good report, and i would like to underline that i would very much like to see the opening of chapters 23 and 24 as a good sign of faith, but also as a sign that a lot of work needs to be done.
president, dutch president-in-office of the council, minister koenders, i very much appreciate your presence here as a fellow citizen. mr president, it is becoming increasingly evident that the libyan theatre of operations is by no means a backdrop for the islamic state. the facts speak for themselves. the islamic state is currently directing high-ranking commanders towards its strategic stronghold and outpost of sirte. in addition, the is propaganda advises african and european muslims to go to libya for their jihad instead of going to syria, so along with our syrian passengers we now have our libyan passengers. add to that a huge libyan coastline under direct is control. in short, the islamic state is a direct threat to our continent from libyan territory. and in passing, the eu is, as i have heard from minister koenders, setting its hopes for a libyan unity government. but there is another libyan scenario that is possible, a true doomsday scenario where al-qaeda, isis and the muslim brotherhood meet. minister koenders, have you heard about this in the arab press and what do you think? you need to have all channels open.
the commissioner also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's citizens have access to information and to be informed about the eu's policies and actions. this parliament has already successfully urged new transparency initiatives in trade and investment agreements. the signing of the uncitral convention is part of that. this leads to more transparency and access to information in isds cases, the controversial mechanism that allows arbitration between states and investors. it is therefore strange that the council, in which member states have collectively included 1 300 of these controversial clauses in trade agreements, does not take any steps towards transparency. the netherlands, which as president of the council claims to put transparency at the heart of its agenda, has not yet signed up to greater openness in the affairs themselves, greater access to documents and a greater role for civil society organisations. in the council, some member states have already signed, such as germany, italy, sweden and belgium, but the united states and canada are also now more transparent than we are. it is really strange and disappointing that the problem is with the council and we hear tough words also from minister ploumen, who says he will oppose the european commission for more transparency. you are right to say that you cannot force other member states to do so. that is true, but you can probably set a good example and show during the presidency how we are going to solve this by signing it ourselves, by bringing other member states along. perhaps you can explain today which member states are in the way and what concrete plans you have to bring about greater transparency and to get the whole eu and all the member states to sign the uncitral convention.
i have spoken out against private investment tribunals on several occasions, but the reality is that isds exists and is part of thousands of bilateral investment treaties. in fairness, companies in my own country are big users of the isds route and are seeking damages. that is why i support the uncitral treaty for more transparency, precisely because we are working on a new, full-fledged alternative to replace isds. un rules pull isds cases out of the back rooms by making public what has been decided and on what grounds and for what amount a settlement has been reached. of course it would be nice if the netherlands signed it and the presidency could get some momentum on this dossier, because it is now about the energy charter. but of course the problem is broader, and i would think, if the member states are not cooperating, how will we ever have public, transparent investment protection under, say, ttip and ceta?
on behalf of the group of the european people's party i am furious, furious at the european elite who always talk about security until it turns out that the danger to women is a direct result of the asylum tsunami and islamization made possible by the european union. because the testosterone bombs with an ideological contempt for women that are harassing, raping and raping women in cologne, hamburg, frankfurt and other european cities show that europe is dealing with a sexual jihad. the only sound that came out of brussels was that the problem is not immigration but public order. where do you get the courage to keep schengen and the european union out of the wind in this way? it is outrageous. president, the european union, schengen and the junckers of this world are the very ones who are endangering public order by allowing thousands of misogynists in, facilitating the sexual jihad. there is only one solution, mr president, to this islamic barbarism, and that is to close the borders and de-islamise.
on behalf of the ppe group, commissioner crețu, i thank you for your reply now, your positive attitude and commitment. i still have three points. the committee of the regions has reviewed recent developments. they note that in many member states there is a tendency towards renationalisation. the second. the partnership principle laid down in article 5 of our regulation is not respected in all member states. the regions and cities are not seen as equal, democratically elected partners, but as one of the stakeholders. the third. the committee of the regions explicitly speaks of centralisation and that is contrary to the code of conduct we have agreed in the council. i can therefore say on behalf of the ppe group: subsidiarity is essential to us and we are committed to it. the question i have now is: you say there's a study coming out. we are talking about a public consultation. we are now dealing with article 16 (3) in the report for which i am the rapporteur on behalf of this parliament. we'd like to go into this further. i ask you: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to meet parliament in order to discuss this matter in public.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party in two months' time we shall have a referendum in the netherlands on the agreement with ukraine. now it turns out that last week mr soros, a major american investor, put 200,000 euros into the campaign fund of the yes campaign. now, there are studies going on, because more and more people with big financial interests are putting money into that yes-camp. that, mr president, is a manipulation of the referendum. it shows that the netherlands is underdeveloped in the field of democratization and that underdeveloped countries, you mentioned regions, the netherlands region, let me say, can call on the regional development fund. i would ask the commissioner, through you, mr president: save democracy and pour generously into the campaign chest of the no-camp! [ the speaker will be answering two 'blue card' questions in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. ]
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it can be very short. i am very shocked by mr stuger's remark that the netherlands is an underdeveloped democratic area. how can he represent the dutch people here and also abuse this agenda? it is about the role of the regions in regional policy. you're missing the point. can you comment on that?
"blue card" is the answer. when large american investors - and i am speaking to mr van nistelrooy - interfere with a referendum in the netherlands without the dutch government intervening, then you can talk about the fact that there is a democratic deficit in the netherlands with regard to this referendum, and that is what i am talking about specifically. so it's good to call attention to that. in answer to mr etheridge's question. of course the dutch people see the referendum as an opportunity to express all the pent-up anger and frustration about the eu and all its failures within that referendum. i hope for a good result, for an overwhelming "no". and i hope that this will be a prelude to the referendum which you will soon be able to take part in in the united kingdom.
"blue card" question. what is it? i know you, mr etheridge, as a member who has very close contacts with his constituents, and what i am wondering, also in the context of what is happening in the netherlands, is what the mood is now, when you come to your region, with the people who have lost their jobs there in recent years, who are up to this point in debt and have to pay a lot of taxes. what is the atmosphere with regard to the eu and regional development? do they even know what regional development is? are they involved? do they see any of it?
madam president, the two million people living in crimea are facing unprecedented levels of human rights abuses. for the tatar community in crimea, like all who have categorically opposed the illegal occupation and annexation of crimea, this means systematic persecution, intimidation, expulsion, abduction, violent attacks, torture, etc. with no legal redress. it also means that the local population has no access to the international bodies which all the people of europe can turn to when their rights are being violated. we stand in solidarity with the mejlis, the entire crimean tatar community and all ukrainians who are in a vulnerable position for openly supporting the territorial integrity of ukraine. i call on the russian federation and the de facto authorities in crimea to grant unimpeded access for the independent experts of the un, the council of europe, the osce and the high commissioner for national minorities.
author.– madam president, this week many of the people here – just like i did – heard from the authorities in bahrain. those authorities would like to focus on energy, security and other issues of mutual concern, and i too would prefer not to have to ask the bahraini authorities again to stop torture, to stop repressing minority opinions, to stop revoking people’s citizenships, and now – the worst punishment of all – to stop the death penalty. mohammed ramadan is one of 10 people on death row in bahrain, but he is the first to have exhausted all legal appeal mechanisms. we urgently call on the bahraini authorities to reinstall the moratorium on the death penalty. more broadly, the best way – and in fact the only way – to develop fruitful and deep cooperation between bahrain and the european union is for them to unequivocally respect the rights of all people in bahrain, to grant the special representative of the un access to the country and full access to detainees at facilities, and to make sure that it respects the rights of people.
- a writer. in preparing for this debate, i came across a scathing joke in a famous hong kong newspaper, the south china morning post, which reads as follows: the fastest way to cross the border from hong kong to the people's republic of china is to open a bookstore or a publishing house. i would like to add to that: even without valid travel documents, it is possible. see the abrupt disappearance of publisher lee bo late last year. and yes, with beijing's arm reaching so far and so deep into hong kong, the makers of politically unwanted jokes towards the xi regime will be more and more wary. the question remains whether the new owner of the south china morning post will tolerate critical, independent journalists. madam president, the eu must not allow china to get away with flagrant violations of the 'one country, two systems' principle for the sake of competing economic interests of the member states. our divisions with china give beijing free rein to divide and trade.
we keep millions of animals in europe, mainly dogs and cats, but over a thousand other often exotic species are sold as pets. it's very lucrative. the illegal trade in animals is worth billions. it also causes untold suffering. pets are often bought on a whim and thrown away with the same ease. every day in europe many animals are neglected, abused, mistreated, dumped and killed. pets are not toys! they are living beings with consciousness and feeling and they deserve our protection. you'll be nothing but a newborn puppy being dragged across europe in the trunk of a car to be sold in belgium. you'll be a labrador, wandering the streets of romania, a country where animals are cruelly persecuted and killed because every animal killed brings in money. you'll be nothing but a turtle and spend your whole life in a shoebox! or you'll be a galgo being held in spain for hunting, used, teased, tortured and if you're not quick enough, killed! president, you will be nothing but an animal in europe. and you, the european commission, can ensure that animals are helped. firstly, by introducing a compulsory identification and registration system for all pets in europe. and coupled with that, a licensing system for breeders and sellers, with, of course, the associated animal welfare requirements. the second point, which is easy to introduce, is a positive list for pets, as has been done in belgium and the netherlands, so that only animals that are suitable for this purpose may be kept. and when will the commission publish the promised study on the welfare of dogs and cats in the european pet trade? i'd like a reaction, though. the more rapid action the commission takes, mr president, the sooner the miserable existence of many pets will be brought to an end. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, i always like to cite my favourite television programme – yes prime minister – in particular the episode where sir humphrey says: ‘minister, britain has had the same foreign policy objective for at least the last 500 years: to create a disunited europe. in that cause, we have fought with the dutch against the spanish, with the germans against french, with the french and italians against the germans, and with the french against the germans and the italians. divide and rule, you see. why should we change now, when it’s worked so well?’ well, as a dutch liberal and as a european, i would say this: let us prove sir humphrey wrong on 23 june. dear british friends, we want you in; we need you in, and not because of some vague deal but because only with a strong united europe can we respond to the challenges of the 21st century: refugees, terrorism, climate change and the energy crisis. only together can we make the lives of our citizens better by seizing the fantastic opportunities of the internet era and the global economy. let us build our future together, friends: vote ‘in’ on 23 june.
opinion polls show that a majority of the british people want the united kingdom to leave the european union. the european union is showing that it has no regard for the will of the british people and democracy. everything has been done to prevent a brexit, with a no-deal brexit as a result! the united kingdom will not regain a single inch of sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the british people deserve better, the people of europe deserve better: a departure from the eu, to be the boss in your own country again. the british referendum is a historic opportunity to do so. in the netherlands, 53% also want a nexit referendum. i therefore call for this to be signed off today. to a europe of cooperating sovereign states, to greater freedom and greater prosperity.
we can have summit after summit on the refugee crisis. with turkey, without turkey. with greece, without greece. austria, the balkans, and once again, without greece. but we're not going to get the asylum crisis, the refugee crisis under control if we refuse to talk about the fact that a million people came here last year and that we can expect to see them again next year. when we talk about closing borders, the external borders and the internal borders, we are looking away. that is what the ministers of justice and home affairs will do tomorrow when they discuss the possibility of using a new article in the schengen treaty to extend border controls for a little longer. mr tusk, leadership is recognizing that we must give refugees a place and not shift this problem onto greece or turkey. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i insist that we are talking about a refugee crisis here and not a migrant crisis. almost all of the people who arrive in europe are granted asylum. i also think you are right that there is a problem with political will and member states not doing their part. but the suggestion that we can take a harder line on turkey is nonsense. because let's face it, that 3 billion euros hasn't been transferred yet. we are not really interested in opening up new chapters for turkey. because we don't want it to join at all. we do not want to offer visa-free travel at all and we want the turks to keep those two and a half million refugees there. we are not in a position to negotiate, ma'am.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation in this report and also to thank my shadow rapporteur. mr tremosa i balcells, i am a bit surprised: you say that you are voting against this report because we are using the flexibilities for more investment. have you been listening to the chief economist of the oecd, who this year joined the ranks saying that europe needs more investments? it seems that more and more economic institutions in central europe, and even outside europe, are saying that more investments are needed, but alde, the liberals, are keeping up their old strategy of saying ‘no, we should not invest’. this is a very strange attitude, and i am happy that this report gives more room for investment and also more room for investment in human capital, and that we are saying that the euro area’s aggregate fiscal stance is a good thing to look at and that the structural reforms should be more geared to resource efficiency. all these aspects are good aspects in this report, and that is why we as a group can vote in favour and give once more consideration to the liberals to really change their strategy, because the world is moving on. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– [...] like a question, because i have to get back to your first contribution, when you said ‘i’m voting against because there is more flexibility and stability growth backed in the report, and there’s also negative language about surplus countries like the netherlands and germany’. that is a good thing indeed, and i think we should do so. and on investments: only if really viable; if that is the reason why you would vote against, then just look at the fact that on structural reform and investment we say that the sustainable transition of member states’ economies towards greater resource efficiency is crucial. that has your point in it, so if that is really your key vote, you can still change and make it a plus.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, as we express our support for closer cooperation between the eu and tunisia through trade, let me begin by recognising the people in tunisia. we know these times are very challenging, but we are encouraged and also moved by your ongoing courage and struggle to overcome repression, whether it is authoritarian or islamist and even the horrors of terrorist attacks. tunisia is and must be an example of peaceful transition, yet this path of transition to democracy is hard, and the eu must be tunisia’s first and essential partner. let us also remember why five years ago mohamed bouazizi, in an act of despair, set himself on fire and became a symbol for all those who had a good education but for whom corruption prevented any opportunity, especially for young people. i trust that a good trade agreement along with broader support will contribute to development, stability and the freedom of tunisians to shape their own future, and in that context i urge colleagues not to prevent a very minimal quota on the import of olive oil without duties. it will have very little impact on the european market but will be a major support for tunisian development.
i am glad that parliament has now finally received the impact report on the agreement with philip morris. according to the report, pmi's cigarette intercepts have decreased by 85% since 2004. however, as the researchers themselves have pointed out, this is not saying much. since 2004, an increasing number of unbranded cigarettes, cheap whites, have been smuggled into the eu. the researchers therefore had to conclude - and i think this is very important - that the collaboration with pmi has not produced any demonstrable benefit for public health in europe. the small amount of fines that pmi had to pay, amounting to over eur 68 million, remains remarkable. the researchers note that the interceptions are of ever smaller quantities of cigarettes. they are thus kept under the radar because the pmi agreement only covers interceptions of at least 50 000 cigarettes. so that's a very good thing for the tobacco industry. now the big question: should we renew the agreement with pmi? in my group's view, no. the researchers already point out that it is at least curious when you conclude a cooperation agreement with the same manufacturers who are legally challenging the european tobacco directive. in addition, within a few years new legal rules will enter into force which will oblige pmi to make similar arrangements to those agreed in the agreement. the main argument, however, is that the rules of the world health organization require that any appearance of conflict of interest or entanglement with the tobacco industry be avoided. let us not become dependent on money that sticks to blood. i therefore hope that today we can agree with the commission that the cooperation with pmi will not be renewed.
in writing. ‒ vvd does not support an arms embargo against saudi arabia, because we need to be on speaking terms with this political and economic power in the middle east. however, vvd supports the improvement of the humanitarian situation in yemen. therefore, the final vote of vvd against the resolution should not be interpreted as condoning the human rights violations in yemen, but as a rejection of the arms embargo against saudi arabia.
on behalf of the alde group the danger of antibiotic resistance is still too much underestimated. the use of antibiotics worldwide is increasing dramatically, by as much as 67 percent in just one generation. however, no new classes of antibiotics have been added since 1987. action must therefore be taken both veterinary and human. that this is possible is proven by the netherlands! in just four years, the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry has been reduced by more than half. it is good that the dutch presidency has made this a priority. for the first time in history, a meeting of the ministers of health and agriculture has been organized, and the so-called 'one health approach' is essential. the new animal health law now being negotiated in europe is a step in the right direction. the liberal group's efforts have preserved some crucial elements, such as the legal obligation to use antibiotics responsibly. antibiotic reduction is not an easy task. it can only be done through smart collaboration, good management and innovation in, for example, livestock systems. the cost aspect is important. it cannot be that one farmer has to invest and the other does not. we want to ensure a level playing field while at the same time eradicating the problem at its root. good legislation is one thing, but what matters is implementation. the netherlands is leading the world in reducing antibiotic use. it is high time that the rest of europe followed suit.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, once again i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs, madam paulsen and mr selimović, the shadow rapporteurs, and their team for their excellent and tireless work. i have listened to the views of this house with close attention. the various points illustrate the very strong interest of the honourable members in this legislative initiative. some of you mentioned the economic situation, and the commission is aware about today’s economic situation which, in some cases, will damage animal health issues. some of you raised questions about stray dogs: the european parliament recently adopted a resolution calling upon the commission to adopt rules for the compulsory identification and registration of dogs and cats and some other animals commonly used as pets. the new animal health law is a legal framework and contains basic rules, including those for the identification and registration of animals. it provides more specific rules only for those animal species where the identification and registration rules exist at present. however, the regulation also provides for the possibility to lay down further detailed requirements for the identification and registration of animals of other species such as dogs, cats, and so on, for which specific requirements do not exist at present. the necessity of such future rules will be assessed by the commission in the course of the years following the adoption of animal health law, and then delegated and implementing acts will be prepared. the commission is committed to animal welfare and considers it a very important issue, as you just raised in the discussions. however, the scope of this regulation focuses on the transmissible animal diseases and does not directly regulate animal welfare. a number of compromise solutions were found during the trialogue negotiations to clarify the relation between animal health and animal welfare and to address the concerns of the parliament on animal welfare. it was not always easy to agree to all of them; nonetheless, the commission understands the importance of animal welfare for the european parliament and has therefore made a statement confirming its commitment to animal welfare. the union has a well-developed acquis regarding animal welfare, covering different species (broilers, laying hens, pigs, calves) or activities (farming, transport, slaughter, research, etc.). this animal welfare legislation will necessarily continue to apply. some mentioned antimicrobial resistance. antimicrobial resistance is very important to me, therefore issues of antimicrobial resistance were always included in the commission’s proposal on animal health. this, together with the future legislation on veterinary medicines and medicated feed, will provide solid grounds to address this issue. finally, the commission has also made the statement, ‘the commission undertakes to publish a regular report as regards the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals in the eu on the basis of data made available by the member states.’ let me finish by expressing my sincere hope for the support of parliament for an early second reading agreement on this file, which would pave the way for its multiple benefits to come to fruition as early as possible.
in writing. this bill deals with animal diseases and animal health. that's why i want to emphasize: this is not an animal welfare bill! a new animal welfare strategy is still very much needed and i am still waiting for a proposal for a framework law on animal welfare from the commission! fortunately, the proposal does stipulate that pain, stress and suffering in animals should be avoided when implementing animal health legislation. the legislation also introduces mandatory registration of professional breeders and sellers of dogs. this is the way to tackle the illegal trade in puppies, which is still leading to countless painful examples of animal suffering. there are still puppy mills where puppies are illegally and unvaccinated traded on the conveyor belt. this has got to stop! good identification and registration can help. however, a major sticking point in the law remains the distinction between domestic and wild animals. stray and runaway animals are included in the definition of wild animals; the presence of the owner or carer of an animal is therefore a determining factor in the degree of protection against disease (such as vaccination) and disease control measures. it was never the intention to kill healthy stray animals "preventively" under the guise of disease control measures.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for his report. he's put his neck out and got down to business. the ppe, alde and ecr groups have therefore now achieved an excellent result with the rapporteur. i think of the following points: firstly, the reduction of red tape and social burdens for ports. initially, the proposal was full of social provisions, such as the obligation for port companies to provide training and education for port workers. but many port companies don't even deal with that. that's right now. secondly, ports now have a choice about how they want to be organised. mandatory market access is no longer an issue. europe is now aligning itself with the situation in the regions of the member states, not the other way around. port companies decide how they want to be organised, and rightly so. the situation in rotterdam is very different from that in vigo, spain, for example. subsidiarity and sovereignty have really been vindicated. thirdly, there is an exception for private ports. we have paid particular attention to the situation in the private ports of england and they can now arrange for services such as towing or mooring of ships. they also don't have to go through any complicated tendering procedures, so that's also very nice. some are calling for the proposal to be rejected. that would be very stupid. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, because then the directorate-general for competition will look around and commissioner vestager will make sure that the provisions which apply to competition also apply to ports. well, we're not really far from home until that box of tricks is pulled open. it would therefore be very unwise to reject this and i call on everyone, including my own group, to support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, voted on by the european parliament on tuesday 8 march 2016, is misleading. the report is based on the commission's wish, supported by the european parliament, to be able to determine for itself whether member states are corrupt and, if so, to what extent. that is a task which has been well done by independent journalists to date. but independent investigations have consistently shown that a number of member states are deeply corrupt. and so the european commission, itself previously dismissed for corruption, wants to come up with new rules. that's like asking the mob to rewrite the criminal code. the pvv voted against.
in writing. – human dignity, respect and a safe place to stay! let us not forget this when we talk about women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu and their vulnerable situation. let us talk about people and not only about numbers. we are talking about women who are too afraid to close their eyes in the mixed sleeping areas of reception centres. we are talking about victims of sexual violence. we are talking about people whom we are failing to protect, whose multiple victimisation we are not able to prevent. women suffer disproportionately on their way to the eu and while staying in reception centres. we fail to protect them sufficiently and need to take appropriate measures to change this degrading situation. we need to prioritise these measures: first, make available safe and legal routes to the eu, by cooperating with third countries such as turkey and by unravelling criminal networks. second, we need to improve our internal cooperation; stop talking about numbers – take action! third, we need to ensure that gender budgeting is applied while funding facilities for refugees: practical measures to make separate sleeping arrangements and bathrooms, and to organise gender sensitivity training for coast guards, police, interviewers and interpreters.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, every effort to stop the war in syria through negotiation must be supported, but not every outcome can be accepted. the cessation of hostilities is very fragile but it must be a step towards a ceasefire because the appalling violence, death, destruction, starvation and the extraordinary human suffering has gone on for far too long. the syrian people deserve more support from us and we must strengthen our negotiating and leadership position. had we developed a strong common and comprehensive eu strategy towards syria earlier, we would have played a role of leadership and not merely be first in facing the consequences of inaction. the eu is most noticeable in its divisions and its struggle to offer humane shelter to those fleeing the war, many of whom are syrians. yes, we are key for humanitarian aid but we need more efforts to stop this suffering at its source. meanwhile, russia continues to help assad and create new realities on the ground and then negotiates for humanitarian aid. putin jumped into the vacuum using the most cynical and brutal violence of bombing hospitals, civilians and rebels that share our agenda in fighting the so-called islamic state – or daesh – and this kind of behaviour led by putin’s russia must have a price. i believe we need eu sanctions for the violence used in syria. i have a few brief questions for the high representative. after we heard that the continuation of talks has been delayed and will not start tomorrow but on monday, independent and credible monitoring of the cessation agreement and of aid delivery becomes even more important. how was this organised, and are food drops being considered for those suffering the most? you mentioned the packages on lebanon and jordan. is this enough? i worry a great deal about the situation in lebanon, while so much attention goes to turkey. we cannot afford lebanon to collapse. lastly, how will you use your leverage and contacts with the iranian leaders to ensure they play a more responsible role and stop supporting the brutal assad regime?
in your introduction to this debate, madam high representative, you referred to discussions you had yesterday with your turkish partners. there are three recent events that concern me, which is why i ask: how do you define turkey's role in the regional war currently raging in syria? on two occasions, hundreds of heavily armed jihadists, whether from jabhat al-nusra or the islamic state, have attacked kurdish units from turkish territory. once at the city of azaz, the second time at the city of tel abyad. so turkish territory is being used as a base for jihadists in that war. finally, a third event: on 28 february the greek authorities detained a ship from turkey, loaded with heavy weapons, on its way to lebanon. mrs mogherini, i have the impression that turkey is more the problem than the solution to the crisis situation surrounding this whole syrian regional war.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that the council will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. but when i listen to you, what i hear is a kind of "loyal cooperation". i also hear you say, as a form of disclaimer, 'within the law' and 'within the international conventions', but i do hear you suggest that we should cooperate in good faith with a council proposal which is not aimed at giving refugees a home and welcoming them, but which is primarily aimed at limiting the flow of refugees into europe. i think we 're already at the first mistake in our analysis: refugees flee from somewhere, not necessarily to somewhere. we must recognize that and deal with it. we don't do that when we say, "here's a used refugee, i'd like a fresh refugee back". it's not like trading empty bottles for full bottles. they're people looking for a safe place. so if you're talking about legal access, i'd like to know how we're organizing that legal access. if you're talking about border controls, then we should both share the analysis that precisely because people can't use legal border crossings, they come irregularly. that's why we have a control problem. i think it is not just the council that is lacking in leadership, but you too now, and that is a pity, because you were on the right track.
for the enf group if anything has emerged from this self-inflicted asylum crisis, it is the general ignorance of the european union. hundreds of pages of proposals have already been submitted, but no asylum seeker has been denied entry. yesterday, european leaders, with prime minister mark rutte as the current president of the european union, threw the national interests of sovereign states into the lap of the turkish dictator erdogan. turkey demands and the eu bows. that's the conclusion of yesterday's shameful display. turkey wants 6 billion euros, the european union is bowing. turkey wants to abolish the visa requirement, the european union is giving in, turkey wants accelerated accession to the european union and the eu is giving in. the european union has become dependent on the unreliable turkey and is thus playing a dangerous game with our freedom, all under the guise of solving the asylum tsunami. this wasn't a negotiation, and this isn't a deal. this is a historic mistake. these plans must therefore be dropped immediately. i therefore call on my own prime minister, mark rutte, to show courage. close the dutch borders. no money for turkey and asylum seekers, but for our own people and our own security.
last weekend in my own country, the headline news was that hundreds of romanian workers were working for one euro in dutch shipyards, hired through a dutch office with a mailbox in romania. unfortunately, that was no accident. the romanian workers are not to blame, but the people who deliberately seek out loopholes in the law are. some people say that you are moving too fast with the revision of the secondment directive. i am inclined to say that you are finally realising that a union of 28 different labour markets can only exist by guaranteeing fair labour mobility and the protection of workers. your proposal to amend the posting of workers directive is a step in the right direction. i am in favour of extending chain responsibility and the obligation for temporary employment agencies to pay workers the same as they are in the host country. but that's not the end of the story. there are still large differences in social security contributions between member states, as is the case with romanian workers who worked in the shipyards in the netherlands. in the netherlands, they call it "premium shopping". the commission has not yet taken a decision on this. i therefore look forward to your proposals for social security coordination later this year, because only by introducing equal pay for equal work in the same workplace can we maintain the support and solidarity in the union, also in the future.
first of all, i am glad that this proposal is now on the table and that we can start working on it. we all know that there are quite different views on the posting directive between the member states, and also here in parliament. i would therefore like to compliment mrs thyssen on her steadfastness on this matter. this is an important proposal to improve the position of two million posted workers in europe and to put an end to unfair competition in the labour market. the free movement of services and persons is a very important cornerstone of the internal market, but it must be done in a fair way: not just free mobility, but fair mobility, on a level playing field. the proposal meets two of my major priorities in this area. first of all, the duration of the secondment. secondment is by definition temporary and should be regulated as such. we can and will debate in this parliament the exact length of secondment, but the proposal to limit the duration is very good. the same applies to the proposals on the remuneration of posted workers. it is clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on social affairs and employment. this proposal by commissioner thyssen is a balanced proposal, a good basis for starting our work here. i hope that we here in the european parliament, from left to right and from east to west, north and south, will proceed in the same balanced way.
i have three questions. what good is a pan-european labour market if people need two jobs to pay the bills? what does a zero-hour contract do for an educated young man in spain who is desperate to find work to start a family? and what does a skills approach do for a worker in bulgaria who earns 95 euros a month in a garment factory? these are the questions which i believe the social pillar should address. central should be about: how do we ensure labour markets that can support our ambitions for innovation, while being inclusive and providing support when needed? after all, you're not 21 and in top shape every day of your life. the second. how do we adequately combat poverty and inequality, but also make work worthwhile and thereby boost purchasing power? the third. how can we actually strengthen the social partners by turning their agreements into legislation rather than just lip service? in short, commissioner, not words but deeds and preferably good deeds and a little quickly.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this initiative. i should like to say something about the idiotic sums promised to the wrong turkey or the immense sums that have been transferred to greece in vain. but i want to talk about the flexibility instrument. parliament wants to have an extra amount of money on top of the budget for emergencies and that is a very bad idea. after all, how do you know if today's emergency is the worst thing that's gonna happen this year? because the eu is causing quite a lot. and before you know it, you've spent your emergency money prematurely and wrong. and i predict what's going to happen: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. governments are notoriously unable to deal with money, not at national level and certainly not at european level, and therefore less, less, less money to the eu and no flexibility instrument.
madam secretary, it is a great pleasure to see you here again. i want to start with a few quotes in english: "what a europe without internal borders is crying out for is a common approach in this field. the problem is that every time the council has to take a concrete decision, the highest common denominator suddenly seems to become the lowest one. to be quite frank, i am fed up with merely hearing fine words on this matter". do you recognize the words? yes, these are the words of mep hennis-plasschaert, then rapporteur on asylum policy, on 6 may 2009. and you even advocated passionately for a mandatory european defence mechanism. madam minister, this deal between the eu and turkey is not a sign of the strength of the european union, but of its weakness. it's a deal that is legally dubious and morally utterly unworthy. we are talking about plans for economic growth, but mr dombrovskis, who wants to invest in this european union that is falling apart? i would like to make an urgent appeal to you and to the dutch presidency: fight for the full and sustainable asylum policy that you so passionately advocated in 2009.
to the cowardly leaders of europe, i say: "shame on you!" you surrendered completely to the unreliable turkish dictator erdogan on monday. you are betraying our european values, you are trashing the interests of our sovereign states and you are putting our freedom at risk. your acceptance of all turkish demands demonstrates the impotence of your collapsing eussr. the euro-friendly elite is in a state of panic. in a panic, you let the turks enter the eu without visas, in a panic you pay the sultan of ankara 6 billion euros and in a panic you allow turkey to join the european union in a hurry. in total panic you are submitting to islam and you are heading towards an islamic europe, a historic mistake. and you call that "peace in our time". - that's not true! this evil plan must be dropped now, now! stop the billions going to turkey. stop the islamic invasion, stop the betrayal of the european people. enough is enough. there is only one solution, there is only one way out of this crisis. there is one powerful and effective answer to this unrestrained influx of happiness seekers. close the internal and external borders and guard them. - right now!
as doctor faustus once sold his soul, so europe is now giving itself to turkey! with much aggression and violence, the turkish government took over the zaman newspaper last week. and that was actually not surprising, because the erdogan regime has been on top of the world for years when it comes to: where are most journalists imprisoned? what was surprising was that our leaders surrendered to turkey two days later. what the siege of vienna in 1683 failed to do, the turks now did with a roof of tin! erdogan has europe wrapped up and is getting more money and visa-free travel. eu membership seems imminent. freedom of the press, minority rights, freedom of religion, all of that is at stake in turkey. europe must not pass itself off as dr faustus. stop the deal with the sultan of turkey and stop turkish accession! (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. at least three things must happen. the european union is not prepared to accept the accession of turkey. the two cases are completely separate. the second. we are going to give a huge amount of money to turkey, but where is that money going? how do you make sure it's spent well? i would much rather that we as europe should build these reception centres in turkey ourselves and arrange everything ourselves to prevent the money from going into the pockets of some turkish civil servant. the third. we must show solidarity with greece, and we must ensure that greece is helped now to make these hotspots operational and to ensure that refugees are properly received and registered there. that's the three points.
madam secretary, it must be a strange sensation for you. you're there now, in the past you were here. and i think that if you had been here, you would have applauded the speech of guy verhofstadt, who spoke with contempt of the european council's plan and predicted that we would see other smuggling routes where refugees would be at great risk. that was your political leader. now you have a new political leader, mark rutte, the dutch prime minister. and mark rutte is drumming it up everywhere that the influx of refugees must go to zero, to zero! now i want to ask you, madam secretary. do you want to provide security for refugees or do you want to stop them? and now another question: turkey can get a trade for syrians: we send one back, they can put one on a flight. doesn't this actually lead to more people on boats to get more people on planes?
mr president first, to state the obvious, the eu and turkey need each other in order to find a joint solution for the refugee crisis. this does not mean stopping the flow, but managing it in such a way that people in need of protection can get it, economic migrants are returned and the burden is shared fairly. the recent agreement does not provide an adequate answer to the humanitarian crisis we are facing. how can the leaders of 28 european countries come up with a plan whereby legal routes for refugees are provided only if other refugees continue to risk their lives via human smugglers? not only does this go against international law, it is also morally very wrong. the eu has put itself in a very weak position by maintaining a one-dimensional dialogue with ankara only based on the number of people arriving on a daily basis on the greek islands. migration first; human rights will come later. this is a very dangerous strategy at a moment of a major crackdown on press freedom and rule of law in turkey and at a time the 355 000 kurdish citizens of turkey had to flee their houses because of the violence that re-erupted in the south-east of the country. the eu cannot continue to look the other way. my plea to the council is to start with large-scale resettlement for the most vulnerable refugees. this will also be a genuine burden sharing with the turkish people, who have showed great hospitality during the past five years.
we have always been going to sweden with our family in the early 1980s. sweden was a beautiful country then, beautiful, prosperous and safe. i even gave a talk about sweden when i was about 11 years old. and i was able to report that sweden was leading the way when it came to women's rights, that swedish schoolchildren were among the best performers in europe, and that the swedish government was also open and transparent. last year i took my own children on holiday to sweden again. i was scared shitless. what a change a country can make! my daughter, 12 years old, is now doing a speech about sweden. she has to tell her classmates that sweden has the second highest rape rate in the world. only in lesotho is a woman less safe! the rape rate - i say it again - in sweden is the second highest in the world, higher than in mexico, nigeria or russia. my daughter is now also reporting that the swedish government is withholding information to avoid playing into the hands of political opponents. and the school performance of swedish children is falling dramatically. mr president, i am shocked by this. how can a country go backwards in 30 years? there is only one way to do that, and that is through the eu and its destructive effect. the eu is failing and pulling sweden into its slipstream. this is the failure of the eu, this is the failure of the political elite.
the european parliament has never before unanimously rejected a development programme. but that is exactly what we did last november. the council unanimously rejected that opinion. we do not reject development aid for eritrea as a matter of principle, but we do reject this plan. the european council has also called for the eu to take action to combat illegal immigration. but it is a refugee crisis! eritreans are fleeing north korea in droves because they are being exploited, housed and starved. and if they can survive that dangerous journey - and remember, the eritrean border guard has a shoot to kill policy - they are not safe in europe for the long arm from asmara either. they're being blackmailed financially by their embassies with an illegal 2% tax. president, it is indeed necessary to have a dialogue with president afewerki. but we can't let this conversation turn into the turkey deal: pay for border patrol!
in writing.– cross-border kidnappings and aggression, compulsory national service stretching to a decade, and eritreans’ involvement in the war in yemen are reported by the un monitoring group. this is the country to which the european union has signed a 200-million-euro package of financial support in january for a four—year period. each month, as many as 5 000 people flee eritrea according to un figures. the eritreans are the third largest group of people who risk the journey across the mediterranean to reach europe. and even after they find new homes in europe, they are not free of the eritrean regime’s grasp. it was reported that some interpreters working for the dutch immigration service were linked to the eritrean regime. the regime also targets our free media! in the netherlands alone, eight court cases have been launched against liberal newspapers, radio stations, websites who are critical of the authoritarian regime. the reports suggest that senior government officials are behind this campaign. which monitoring measures does the commission take to ensure that our support leads to the development of the country and to better living conditions of eritreans, and not to the strengthening of this authoritarian government inside and outside of that country?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the oecd predicts that in just one generation, the use of antibiotics worldwide will increase by 67%. action must therefore be taken both veterinary and human. it is irresponsible to compensate for poor animal housing with the preventive use of antibiotics. in addition, further research into new antibiotics, veterinary medicines and vaccines is crucial. the use of genetic modification should remain possible, as is the case with human medicines. for example, this technology produces insulin for diabetic patients. in some cases, a gmo drug or vaccine is the only solution. the amendments seeking to ban genetic modification therefore put both human and animal health at risk and have no basis in reality.
as the ecr shadow rapporteur on the committee on agriculture, i attach great importance to this dossier on veterinary medicines. the point is that the legislative framework stimulates the development of new veterinary medicines. this includes a reasonable period of data protection, as also mentioned by the rapporteur. reducing administrative burdens is also important. it is a good thing that companies will soon be able to convert a decentralized marketing authorization into a central authorization. responsible use of antibiotics is a shared responsibility. i am glad that the wording on community has been incorporated into the text. i would point out that reductions in antibiotic use already achieved in some member states should be recognised in future reduction targets. for a concerted effort and a level playing field are necessary to achieve an effective and lasting result.
for the ppe group question to the commission: have you ever seen a picture or video of a baby born with a tiny head? that's microcephaly, and according to the who, it's probably caused by the zika virus. the latest reports from the american investigation indicate that the virus may also damage the nervous system. it is therefore important that we get on with it. the virus is trailing a trail of misery through tropical countries. infections have also been reported in europe. which begs the question: what's the status of this? do you agree with the who? the ecdc is more critical. what is the risk of infection in europe? what measures are you planning to take? you mentioned several: planes, ships, and so on. but what else are you planning? you promised 10 million euros, or is it 65 million? is that enough to meet the enormous challenge of developing a vaccine for this virus, if that is the cause, and to actually protect the world's population? in europe alone, 5 million women become pregnant every year. along with hundreds of millions of other women worldwide, they are waiting for an approved vaccine. in their interests we call for more research into the zika virus and for more precautions. because you do . a single bite from an infected mosquito can plunge mother and child into lifelong misery. in conclusion: we are now two days away from international women's day. we cannot afford to forget the women of the world. i'm counting on you!
i hear a colleague say we should finish what we started. and indeed, the banking union was one of the greatest achievements of the last parliamentary term, with the aim of stopping the citizens from taking the irresponsible risks of banks. if i were to give most of my colleagues here a blank page, they would no doubt sign a banking union with three pillars: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected. but in times of crisis, much has happened and trust between member states has been greatly affected. we must not pretend that the guarantee of deposits is not already covered by the national systems we have. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we don't just have to finish what we started. we have to do what we agreed to. and just as we have a no creditor worst off criterion, we should also have a no member state worst off criterion. i'm for a third pillar, but not in a hurry! so do it carefully, or we'll be building on quicksand. [ the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
blue-card answer. – exactly. therefore, look at the rules. the rules already are that deposits of up to eur 200 000 are guaranteed through the national schemes. if banks are irresponsible and give their clients products that are high-risk without informing them, that is a consumer issue, but not a deposit guarantee issue. what i am afraid of is if member states – and i do not mention any – try to find a way around the ‘bail in’ principle, which we actually have in order to reduce risk and to reduce moral hazard, then that is basically saying that we do not want bail in, so we want to give the bill back to the taxpayer and back towards the state. i am afraid that some member states do not want to send the bill to their own member state, but to another one. this is why i said we should work towards a third pillar, but with no member state worse off.
author. the horrific murder of italian scientist regeni has the potential to affect relations between egypt and the eu. i would therefore like to stress that it is essential to avoid any premature conclusions and to await the outcome of the joint egyptian/italian investigation. under president al-sisi, 90 destroyed churches have now been restored, and that deserves appreciation as well. one concern is the blasphemy laws, which recently resulted in four young copts receiving harsh sentences. the eu should push for the repeal of this blasphemy law and for president al-sisi to be pardoned. finally, the eu must address turkey, a candidate for accession, on its subversive policy towards egypt. because from turkish territory, egyptian muslim brothers are calling on television to kill journalists, judges and even president al-sisi in egypt.
author.– madam president, as we mourn the lost life of a bright italian student, the injustice and the torture that occur too often in egypt hits home. the push for justice in this case should be as strong as in all cases of forced disappearances in egypt. there were 1 700 instances in 2015, according to ngos, who see the involvement of security services in the methods of torture inflicted. we will hold the egyptian authorities to their promise to fully cooperate with the italian and international experts in this case. we need independent and credible investigations, which is something that does not happen at all in most cases in egypt. there is more impunity than justice, unfortunately. i am very concerned about the large-scale campaign the sisi government is conducting to detain critics, journalists, human rights defenders and political opponents. since 2013, more than 22 000 people have been detained, according to the egyptian authorities themselves. it is high time that the eu speaks out and at least stops the export of technological systems that help human rights violations. it is an illusion to find in egypt a strong partner and an ally in fighting terrorism, without safeguarding the rights and freedoms of egyptians. i truly wonder why the lessons from the recent past are not more decisively guiding eu policies because the reasons for the uprisings in 2011 are still present and we need to take those into consideration.
in writing. – cross-border kidnappings and aggression, compulsory national service stretching to a decade, and eritreans’ involvement in the war in yemen are reported by the un monitoring group. this is the country to which the european union has signed a 200-million-euro package of financial support in january for a four—year period. each month, as many as 5 000 people flee eritrea according to un figures. the eritreans are the third largest group of people who risk the journey across the mediterranean to reach europe. and even after they find new homes in europe, they are not free of the eritrean regime’s grasp. it was reported that some interpreters working for the dutch immigration service were linked to the eritrean regime. the regime also targets our free media! in the netherlands alone, eight court cases have been launched against liberal newspapers, radio stations, websites who are critical of the authoritarian regime. the reports suggest that senior government officials are behind this campaign. which monitoring measures does the commission take to ensure that our support leads to the development of the country and to better living conditions of eritreans, and not to the strengthening of this authoritarian government inside and outside of that country?
on behalf of the alde group the pig price has fallen sharply due to overproduction and a closed russian market. the russian market should be opened to products which are not part of the political embargo but are boycotted because of the alleged african swine fever. we need to be the weed countermeasure, breaking into alternative markets. japan is a good example of this. but the most important thing is that we focus on structural solutions. the position of the pig farmer in the chain should be improved, for example through producer organisations. european pig farmers must invest heavily to meet strict animal welfare and environmental requirements. these investments must be able to earn back the pig farmers' market share. a level playing field in the eu is of unprecedented importance. in some countries, money from brussels is being used to increase pork production even further, while there is a surplus. moreover, european agreements are far from being properly implemented everywhere. it is great to see that the sector itself is also taking initiatives to improve its market position, such as product innovations. they should have more room.
the crisis in the pig sector has gone on for far too long. on behalf of the sectoral organisation in my country, the netherlands, a few questions. is the commission prepared to consider alternative measures to private storage? this is an exceptional crisis situation. the sector considers that temporary early slaughter is a more effective measure than the storage of meat. the price will then improve without risk of subsequent market distortion. secondly, the reopening of the russian market is of great importance. the wto has given a negative assessment of the russian measures and a technical solution with russia should be quickly negotiated. finally, i would like to stress, with my colleague mr huitema, the need for a level playing field within the eu and beyond.
the pig industry has been bouncing from one crisis to another for decades. this crisis is not new. we've had crises from swine fever, from swine flu, crises from market collapses, crises from hormone scandals, you name it. and only because europe wants to be the butcher of the whole world! millions of pigs are kept in miserable conditions to be turned into cheap hams and carbonades as quickly as possible. many pigs are castrated without anesthesia. tails and teeth are cut off when the animals are less than seven days old, and this despite a 20-year ban. the problems are not caused by the collapse of the market in russia. there's simply more supply than demand. instead of reducing production, we store the meat in freezers and advertise eating pork. europe must no longer be allowed to be dragged along by the livestock industry, which is unwillingly growing this animal-friendly, polluting and disease-causing industry. this is the time to shrink and reform the sector. this pig industry is as sick and unstable as the pigs that live in it. that's why i don't want any more money coming in here. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
as always, pig farming is the last item on the agenda. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. often there is no money for the household either. since the russian boycott - and hopefully it will be resolved soon - supply and demand have been completely out of balance. while european pig production continues to increase, prices are falling. at the same time, the cost of living in the netherlands has increased enormously in recent years due to the stricter application of environmental and animal welfare standards, mrs hazekamp. this means that farmers in the netherlands have an extra cost of 20 cents per kilogram of carcass weight compared with 7 cents in germany and denmark. the pig market therefore lacks a single european level playing field. the 10 million euros which the dutch government has allocated to pig farmers from the 500 million extra crisis fund is a small consolation. the money does not go into the farmer's wallet to pay for the costs. we also need to help those who want to quit. so , what do you say ? 1) good guidance for growers who want to stop; 2) help for those who want to start over; (iii) aid to pig farmers wishing to expand their holdings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thought crisis money was for all sectors. finally, improving the bargaining position is an important part of the solution. last year, i had the pleasure of receiving a good plan from copa-cogeca for the farmers' actions in brussels. it shows how farmers, feed suppliers, retailers and government get a fair price. shouldn't this be an example for europe?
mr president, i am lucky that i checked when the public debate would be in plenary, because i just found out that it is now! but my own process was as difficult as the whole process of the authorisation by the commission, because let us be clear: what kind of process is it when a commissioner, after tabling the authorisation, sends letters to the biggest industrial giant in this area asking for more transparency? so there have been huge difficulties and yes, we have efsa, we have a strong role in our decision-making process in europe, and we count on efsa, and efsa is relatively clear in its statement. so my group believes that we should look very closely at what efsa is saying. but efsa is not saying anything about the amount of time – the number of years – that we should go for. therefore we have just tabled an amendment, as the liberal group, in which we call on the commission to renew the approval of glyphosate with a maximum of five years, and to take into account any new evidence up to that time which proves that it is more dangerous than we previously thought, in which case the authorisation should be withdrawn. that is what we just tabled 20 minutes ago, and i hope that you can follow that line during the plenary vote.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. nine committees! these are a lot of parliamentarians who are supposed to represent the people of the european union and who have wasted a lot of time and money in the last few months. because all you are proposing is to create more opportunities to come to the european union. holistically, in the sense of all-encompassing, you do quite literally take it by inviting the whole world to come this way. no suggestions to end the inflation of asylum, no mention of isis terrorists traveling with asylum seekers to spread death and destruction. no representation of the people who are fed up with this influx of refugees and who want their country to remain their country. the rubble of open borders cannot be solved by more european union. for that, you must close the borders and de-islamise!
the market situation of all our farmers and gardeners deserves attention. but then we must talk about structural measures, otherwise we shall soon be back here again. i am particularly interested in whether the 500 million euro which the eu gave to the agricultural sector seven months ago has really made a difference. are we going to continue to suggest that politics can do something to help the market recover or are we going to make real choices to make the sector stronger and healthier? europe must set a common course and strive to improve its competitiveness. first, take a serious look at the cost side. we must curb the drive to rule at national and european level. ensure effective rules and leave room for innovation and entrepreneurship. with new techniques and insights, we can produce more efficiently and more cheaply. secondly, add value to our agricultural products by differentiating ourselves in terms of taste, quality or sustainability. thirdly, look for better ways of working together, between farmers and gardeners, and across the whole chain. in short, come up with a concrete plan and don't write blank checks. finally, it is good that the commission is opening up new markets and promoting trade. the commitment and ambition of commissioner hogan are to be commended, but in doing so keep a close eye on the interests of each agricultural sector and hold our trading partners to the agreements made. because what about the development of new trade agreements, which i welcome? and how does the commission ensure that agreements are more strictly observed and that all subsectors, such as the poultry sector, are closely monitored?
the crisis in our agricultural sectors continues. the distribution of value in the chain is very uneven and that is a structural problem. in a time of crisis, however, this can make the difference between survival and bankruptcy for a farmer. the task force on agricultural markets is an important step in the long term. article 222 on crisis cartels has also been introduced, but only for dairy products. is the commission prepared to make wider use of article 222 and to do so in a more timely manner so that farmers in other sectors can also make arrangements? commissioner, it is not possible for one link in the chain (the primary producer) to be the only one to bear the consequences of the crisis. give farmers all the means to strengthen their position, so that the other links in the chain share proportionately in the consequences of the crisis.
i also speak on behalf of my colleague tom vandenkendelaere from belgium. europe was born after the second world war. it was about peace, but it was also about food, food production, produced by family farmers and family businesses. we almost forgot. but that is the strength of europe. look at the netherlands and belgium: sixty percent of the pig farmers don't make it. and 50 percent of dairy farmers are in serious financial trouble. i am not even talking about related sectors such as wage-earners and the like. many people think that market innovation is the answer, but it's not. there are other things. it is also a matter of a level playing field when it comes to state aid. it is also a question of how the crisis money should be put on the farmers' kitchen table at the moment. last july i asked for a plan of action. some people laughed at me back then, but we're a year ahead now. commissioner, you have proposed a plan and others have said things. let us work towards a fair, social, balanced market economy within europe. if we do this together quickly, we will preserve family farms and food production in europe. but if we don't start doing that with each other, then power, capital and multinationals will take over this entire sector. and what does that mean for a livable countryside? do we think enough about that here in this house, in this chamber?
i promised a few weeks ago to keep you informed of the results of the referendum held in the netherlands last week. the dutch people voted on an association agreement with ukraine and voted overwhelmingly against it. two thirds of the dutch people say no, but here 90% say yes. i am going to round off, let this be a nice prelude to the referendum in the united kingdom. [ the president shall decline the floor.]
in writing. ‒ this report follows the european commission's policy of a minimum vat rate of 15% until 2017. this is a missed opportunity, because member states should be able to apply a much lower vat rate for sustainable, healthy, environmentally and animal-friendly goods and services. on the one hand, the commission preaches sustainability, but when it comes down to it, member states are not free to tax the production of sustainable products and services and to encourage the purchase of these products. the commission's vat action plan should provide much more flexibility for member states to set vat rates for sustainable, healthy, environmentally and animal-friendly goods and services. but that idea is not in the report, and that is why i did not agree to it.
in writing. ‒ the sp group abstained from voting on the report. the sp has serious objections to the eu's agreement with turkey of 18 march 2016, as no guarantees have been provided that syrian refugees will not be returned to syria. reports from amnesty international and others show that this is happening, which is contrary to the refugee convention.
in writing. ‒ the sp group abstained from voting on the report. the sp has serious objections to the eu's agreement with turkey of 18 march 2016, as no guarantees have been provided that syrian refugees will not be returned to syria. reports from amnesty international and others show that this is happening, which is contrary to the refugee convention.
in writing. ‒ proportionality and subsidiarity are essential founding principles of the european legislative process. a subsidiarity test is necessary, because not everything needs to be harmonised immediately. if it can be better regulated at national or regional level, then european legislation is certainly not necessary. it is a shame that some amendments have been adopted, which include the controversial investor state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism in the text. it increases the influence of companies. multinationals use isds clauses in trade agreements to claim money from countries that they see as setting restrictive rules to protect the environment, animal welfare or public health, for example. this undermines democracy and the rule of law and isds will certainly not pass the proportionality and subsidiarity test.
in writing. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) should aim to reduce the bureaucratic burden of european regulation on citizens and businesses. but it is mainly used in the fields of environmental protection, social legislation, animal welfare, public health, consumer protection and food safety. regulations that should protect citizens, animals and the environment must now give way to short-sighted commercial interests and the pursuit of profit; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are applied. however, this refit is mainly used to reduce consumer protection. for example, there are calls to delete the so-called 'nutrition profiles'. however, these nutrition profiles ensure that consumers are not misled by health claims on unhealthy foods with too much fat, salt or sugar. junk food is and remains unhealthy and should not be promoted as 'healthy' or 'vitamin-rich'.
in writing. ‒ this report on small-scale fisheries is a step in the right direction, but it lacks a critical note. european fish stocks are severely overfished and populations are threatened with extinction. there is a great need for a shift towards less fishing and more sustainability. the report calls for more exceptions, more quotas and more flexibility for small fisheries, but that is contrary to the common fisheries policy. if we do not start now to drastically reduce the impact of fishing on the marine environment, many fish species will go extinct. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ sustainable management of global fish stocks requires a view beyond europe's borders. the eu is a big fish on the world stage; the eu's market for marine products is one of the largest in the world and the eu has concluded several fisheries agreements with third countries. although europe is a major contributor to global overfishing, it is important that this external dimension of the european fisheries policy is integrated into the common fisheries policy. the report makes a good contribution to a more sustainable management of the oceans. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, and has also been involved in the development of the european union's fisheries policy. that is why i voted for this report.
i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the victims and survivors of the recent attacks in brussels. it is incredibly sad that these attacks could have been prevented. the national borders should have been closed long ago, because these heroes of islam traveled freely between the netherlands and belgium. the fight against islam should have started long ago, because muslim ghettos are cheering and protecting these muslim heroes. let me be clear, mr president, this is how i see it: you too are morally complicit in these attacks, as are many other meps, commissioners and national government leaders who all call for open borders and for the welcome of migrants from islamic countries. and we're losing more lives, thanks in part to you. how hypocritical was the commemoration of the victims of these attacks in this parliament? we are mourning the victims, while a section of this parliament itself is maintaining the conditions for attacks. moreover, israel should not have been left out of the list of countries hit by attacks! any form of counterterrorism begins with recognizing the cause of terrorism. you refuse to acknowledge this cause and you refuse to name it. the cause of terrorism worldwide is islam. islam has been an ideology of terror for 1400 years. the so-called "religion of peace" has killed at least 240 million people! islam is incompatible with our western values, islam is incompatible with our western culture. i say to you and to the european commission: admit your disgusting failure and step up. let someone else deal with this problem! because the counterterrorism approach is clear: close the national borders, stop mass immigration and stop islam! (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. here again i hear the typical dismissal, denial, ignoring and trivialization of the problem as it really is. it is not only in belgium itself, in molenbeek, and in all those other parts of brussels where the streets were danced and cheered when the attacks on zaventem and maalbeek took place. and then we still get these kinds of stupid questions. i'm throwing that away!
mr president, i think we have to note that the so-called war on terror has failed. for 15 years now, since 9/11, we have been passing one measure after the other, and every time the terrorists are one step ahead. it is high time we rethink our strategy and do not, after every attack, in a pavlov reflex, talk about new megalomaniac it systems – because what we need is not more dots, but to connect the dots. i have been listening to the debate on pnr for many years now. there is not a debate that is as fact-free as the debate on pnr. there is a lot of genuine ignorance, but also a lot of lies. i would really like to know what has been keeping the member states from setting up national pnr systems. as a matter of fact, they have received eur 50 million from the commission for setting up those systems. we do not know what happened to the money. france, which has been pushing for pnr, received eur 18 million. what has happened to the money? they have got the legislation in place. so, instead of talking about new it systems all the time, what we need is, firstly, mandatory information-sharing – and i do not understand why the ppe and the ecr are categorically opposed to this. secondly, we need human intelligence and, thirdly, prevention. that is what we should be investing in, because that will bring greater security to citizens and not just talk, talk, talk about it systems. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr woolfe, first of all i did not say that this parliament has failed to implement; quite the opposite. i said that we have been passing one legislative measure after another and actually, like data retention, it is not being implemented by the member states, and we will have the same problem with the pnr directive. but you cannot deny – and certainly not after the brussels and paris attacks – that so much information on the terrorists was available and it has not been shared. it has been sitting in a drawer and it was not used. whether we are talking about 9/11, boston, toulouse, london, madrid, brussels, paris, the killing of theo van gogh, mumbai: in every single case, the terrorists were known to the authorities beforehand, but they failed to share the information. they need to connect the dots; that is what they need to start doing.
blue-card question.– to be correct, i have never said that we categorically reject the use of pnr data, but first there has to be added value. if there is only collection of data at national level but no exchange, then what is the added value of a european directive? i do not understand – it really escapes me – why the epp, the ecr and the member state governments continue to refuse mandatory sharing of information. if we had that, i would be on your side.
as rapporteur for the fourth revision of the anti-money laundering directive, i negotiated the public register for the ultimate stakeholders of that directive. thank you to parliament for making this possible. that register is necessary to make it impossible for letterbox companies to do their job. to get these kinds of things like the panama papers out in the open and not just rely on leaks, on investigative journalists. now i know that the european commission is going to come forward on 1 june with new proposals to amend this directive again to tighten up the financing of terrorism. i think that is the time to look at the register again, because one of the shortcomings of the register is that it does not include trusts. we could not negotiate that with the council at the time, partly because david cameron did not want to. but there were other member states. so june 1st seems to me the appropriate time to make new proposals for trusts.
in the run-up to this debate i have consulted a number of cuba experts. like me, they all welcome cooperation between the eu and cuba, as long as it is not limited to the regime but includes civil society as well! i want to emphasize that! it is precisely on this last point that i have heard criticisms, also in my own country, of the eu from people who know cuba inside and out. whoever fits the shoe, madam high representative, put it on. as a member of the protestant community in the netherlands, which has for many years maintained close ties with the cuban church and christians, i also urge the high representative to appeal directly and continuously to the cuban authorities for concrete respect for freedom of religion and belief on their own territory. this freedom excludes, first, a system of government informers and informers in church meetings and congregations. that's very important, because there's just an atmosphere of fear, and that says a lot about the regime. so please let us not leave it to a facade which is cosmetic rather than reality. because then we'd be heading in the wrong direction.
madam president, of course we should negotiate and cooperate with the neighbouring countries, but that is not the same as outsourcing problems. negotiations take place between two equal powers, but the eu is weak as we are unwilling to solve our own problems, and the turks realise that. we should have learned from earlier experiences, like in 2010, when we were negotiating a deal with mr gaddafi for keeping the refugees there. that was also not a resounding success. i heard mr weber speak earlier, saying that there is finally, as he said, ‘recht und ordnung’. well that is not the way i perceive it, because we hear stories about people being pushed back to syria – refugees – and we have zero answers from the council or the member states. it is a disgrace that this continent – the richest, most prosperous and freest continent in the world – is tolerating this, and that we are not able to give our own response to the situation. finally, we talk a lot these days about our own values, about how immigrants need to embrace our values. let us uphold our own values and make sure that refugees live in acceptable conditions and not in this misery anymore.
you lock people up, they can't take care of themselves. when you lock people up, you have to take care of them. you have to feed them enough, you have to make sure that the sick are helped, you have to make sure that the children are protected. but what did 28 prime ministers do? they made a deal with turkey and forgot about the execution. and meanwhile, we're locking up refugees on greek islands with insufficient food, children between adults in overcrowded camps where there's not enough food and no doctors and no lawyers! if the prime ministers have put on the big pants to make a deal, they will have to put on the big pants to arrange the implementation and not look to the european commission to implement it. then they must also have an answer to the democratic control? is it the greek parliament that is to oversee the detention centres in greece or can we do something about it? what happens to a 14-year-old girl without food in a detention center with grown men? mr. tusk, what happens to a 14-year-old girl? (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer.– i have a one-point plan, which is large-scale resettlement from third countries, giving people legal access to the european union. but as you heard, my critique was not about what erdoğan does or what turkey does, but what we are not doing, what we are leaving behind: that is, taking care of vulnerable people in detention centres.
visa-free entry for turks, accession to the european union, a few billion euros and a migrant exchange procedure. that's the great deal with turkey! and this commission is also accepting genocide against the kurdish population, oil and arms trade with the islamic state, the silencing of the opposition, the occupation of cyprus and - most sad of all - for the citizens of europe more violence by migrants, more oppression by stealthy islamization, more poverty by the skyrocketing costs of shelter. this commission has no moral compass. and i said: we are the voice of the people and we say on behalf of the people: enough is enough! this bad deal has to go! stop mass immigration, close national borders and send migrants back!
the trojan horse is from ankara. the deal with erdogan is barely working. only a few hundred refugees are now in europe and only a few hundred are now back in turkey. meanwhile, the flow of refugees from italy is increasing by the hour! it is also absurd that the turks have been promised visa-free travel to the european union and a concrete prospect of accession! turkey is now creeping into the eu like the trojan horse of the past. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. five days after the dutch referendum, ukrainians were also promised visa-free travel. how do you make it up! the presidency and the commission must do their homework better. there needs to be a comprehensive plan with selection at the gate to help real refugees.
turkey and the eu need each other to address the refugee crisis in a humane way. for years, we thought that the crisis in syria did not affect us, and we did not care much about the fate of the syrians who fled en masse to neighboring countries. this changed only when more than a million asylum seekers arrived in the eu last year. the way we have dealt with the influx of this vulnerable group of people to date is not a beauty contest. only a few european countries are now taking in the refugees. there is no question of shared solidarity. the agreements with turkey are far from perfect and still need to be worked out. but the alternative is for countries to continue to raise fences and tighten barbed wire, while people continue to drown at sea. that is not my europe! it is therefore our duty to make this agreement work and to defend our values. cooperation with turkey must comply with european and international law. the report by amnesty on the pushback of refugees from turkey to syria is alarming. it is now up to the european commission to ensure that we have clear guarantees that this practice will stop and until then syrians cannot be returned to turkey. but it is also important that the european leaders get on with it and stick to their commitments: the commission will continue to support the efforts of the turkish authorities to ensure that the eu's external borders are fully respected.
in writing. ‒ the sp voted against the amendment welcoming the gsp+ application of kyrgyzstan. the gsp+ trade preferences may only be granted to countries that are signatories to 27 un conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection. kyrgyzstan has not successfully implemented these conventions and should therefore not receive trade preferences through gsp+ schemes. the sp voted in favour of the report as a whole, as it is very critical of developments in the field of human rights, democracy and the fight against corruption in the partner countries concerned and stresses that trade and geopolitical interests of the union are subordinated to human rights, environment and development in the (european) policy in the region.
in writing. ‒ the sp voted against the amendment welcoming the gsp+ application of kyrgyzstan. the gsp+ trade preferences may only be granted to countries that are signatories to 27 un conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection. kyrgyzstan has not successfully implemented these conventions and should therefore not receive trade preferences through gsp+ arrangements. the sp voted in favour of the report as a whole because it is very critical of developments in the field of human rights, democracy and the fight against corruption in the partner countries concerned and stresses that trade and geopolitical interests of the union are subordinated to human rights, environment and development in the (european) policy in the region.
in writing. ‒ the sp group abstained from voting on amendment no 4. while we strongly support the right of women to choose an abortion in the event of an unwanted pregnancy, we believe that legislation on abortion in member states of the european union is a national matter on which the european parliament should not be able to make any judgments.
in writing. ‒ the sp group abstained from voting on amendment no 4. while we strongly support the right of women to choose an abortion in the event of an unwanted pregnancy, we believe that legislation on abortion in member states of the european union is a national matter on which the european parliament should not be able to make any judgments.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i too would like to extend my compliments to the rapporteurs, to former commissioner reding, to commissioner jourová and the luxembourg presidency. i will never forget the long sessions we had with a lot of coffee and not a whole lot of food. this is the result of it. well, we got food but not very healthy food: lots of sandwiches and cookies. when we set out on this adventure, we were just getting acquainted with the first generation of ipads. i suppose there is not anybody in this room who does not have an ipad. well, when we started – the first resolution – it had only just entered the market, so just to show how quickly things are evolving: a lot more quickly than we are legislating. i too believe that the regulation and the directive do not constitute an obstacle, they actually remove obstacles. something that we have been discussing a lot lately, and we will discuss it later today, is fighting terrorism and sharing information. i am convinced that having common standards on data protection will facilitate sharing of information. it will create the trust that agencies need to share information. i also think it is in the interest of the internal market, and we need the internal market to remove obstacles and have a single rule book throughout the european union. we need that urgently if you listen to companies like spotify who are threatening to leave the european union. the final remark: i am very glad that europe is once again setting global standards. i think we can be really proud of ourselves, but of course everything hinges on the application and the enforcement. just today there was a statement by the article 29 working party on the privacy shield. i would strongly urge the commission to take their recommendation extremely seriously and show that we are serious about data protection, not just on paper but also in practice.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. others have spoken about it, but today the european data protection authorities have once again reminded the european commission that privacy shield, the agreement between the european union and the united states, the replacement for safe harbor, is not complete. that it does not protect the data of european citizens and that those citizens in america still have no room to claim their rights. i think that the fact that we are all agreeing on a standard for the protection of our personal data is also the reason why you must renegotiate with the americans. it is still a matter of time before our data protection authorities are enforced or the next court case is brought. and no one wants to see our cell phones, our other equipment, go black. so, commissioner, it is up to you to make improvements.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, not least because this is the start of a new chapter in his life where he will not meet with daily harassment by his favourite shadow rapporteur from the alde group. but i will do something unusual for a politician: i am going to confess that in my group we have been struggling with this topic. emotions have been running high, we have had and we still have very difficult debates. but i am actually quite proud of the liberal group that we have that debate, that we have discussion and doubt and that we do not take a position blindfolded, that we are not dogmatic or ideological or represent certain interests or opportunism. and we have to confess that external pressure has been huge; the debate has often been completely fact-free, the lobby has been aggressive and sometimes immoral, and there have been many ad hominem attacks, but we leave all that behind us. now we may all assess the outcome differently, including in my group – i will personally vote against, that will not come as a surprise – but it remains to be seen whether we get the security that everybody is talking about, or whether this is just fake security. my group was unanimous on a number of principles. we wanted a truly european and effective pnr. we wanted a regulation that would enter into force immediately. we wanted mandatory sharing of information, i.e. the result of analysis. we wanted targeted data collection instead of indiscriminate data collection. we wanted the single system, not 28 systems. but all these proposals have been categorically refused by the ppe, the ecr and the member states. the question is, will this directive see the same fate as the data retention directive? will it be scrapped in karlsruhe or luxembourg? the directive will now have to be implemented by 28 member states, and after their aggressive campaign they had better do it ‘pdq’. finally – and i ask this question to the commission very urgently – can we finally get some transparency on the financial aspects of all this? i want all the details about the fund of eur 50 million. on what basis has it been allocated? and i think we also need some transparency on certain conflicts of interest on the part of heads of government.
blue-card question.– i would like to echo the words of my colleague mr albrecht, and i actually think that the repeated accusations on the side of the ppe, to the effect that we are somehow responsible for terrorist attacks, are disgusting. i would say to mr lamassoure that if you want to accuse people, maybe ask successive french governments why they have not used their own pnr system for which the legislation has been in place since 2006 and for which they have received eur 18 million in subsidies from the european union. what has kept the national governments? maybe you should ask them rather than accuse us.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, today the eu and turkey are facing many of the same challenges. think about the refugee crisis, the threat of terrorism, and a long-lasting conflict in syria that creates instability. one thing that has been made clear through these challenges is that turkey and the eu need each other to find solutions to combat these issues. however, and i want to stress this, we cannot turn a blind eye to the internal developments in the country. turkey must be stable and more democratic if we want it to be a strategic partner we can build on. linking the accession process to migration cooperation is neither wise nor fair. accelerating talks should depend on the pace of the reforms, not on a political tit-for-tat. a lot has already been said this morning on the eu-turkey deal, so i will just briefly say: the turkish population has been hosting three million refugees. many european countries could learn from the hospitality shown in this regard by the turks. but turkey is reaching its limits, and it is time that the eu really reached out to help by providing large-scale resettlement of refugees to eu countries. that is genuine burden-sharing; that is genuine cooperation. many chances to further connect and work together have been missed in recent years. let our current talks on migration lead to a more intensified and honest dialogue. this means that genuine concerns should not be taken as insults. the situation in the south-east of the country is of great concern to this parliament. the eu urges that the peace process be relaunched as there is no military solution to the kurdish question. the current status quo is unacceptable. while we deeply regret the return to violence by the pkk and strongly condemn the attacks against security forces and civilians, we stress, however, that anti-terrorism measures taken by the government must be proportionate and in line with international law. the 400 000 citizens who had to flee their houses because of the violence and the 24-hour curfews in many kurdish-populated cities have put a very heavy toll on the livelihood of ordinary people. we believe that turkey has to return to a path where journalists are not imprisoned for doing their jobs and censorship does not become an instinct for journalists. turkey has to return to a path where academics are not losing their jobs and put in jail for expressing their views. finally, turkey has to return to a path where judges do not hesitate to decide and to give a verdict out of fear of being displaced or fired. we need a more stable and democratic turkey. this is not a threat but an encouragement. it is important that turkey returns to the path of democratic reforms and grasps this opportunity of closer engagement with the eu. finally, let me also thank my colleagues and co-rapporteurs for the good cooperation. i hope that we can send a strong signal from this parliament with this resolution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is clear that it would be too harsh to say that it is because of the eu that the process is not accelerating. first of all, the responsibility lies clearly with the turkish government. it is a merit-based process, but we must judge turkey the same way we also judge other candidate countries. i have to say there have certainly been political differences at play here, with some political parties and politicians in europe not always treating turkey fairly based on the reforms in the country.
the rapporteur rightly refers in paragraph 30 to the mysterious and violent phenomenon of the esedullah teams, the 'lions of allah'. it also called on the turkish authorities to carry out a thorough investigation into the serious human rights violations allegedly committed by the 'lions of allah' in the south-east of the country. i fear that this request will never be granted by president erdogan. because interrogating insiders yesterday and today has given me a plausible explanation for the esedullah's right to exist. they are to protect president erdogan from all domestic dangers. so not only for the pkk, but also for a possible military coup. that's turkey in 2016! meanwhile, i am hearing firsthand reports of defenseless syrian and iraqi christian refugees in turkey, at the mercy of sunni bullies! they are desperately trying to leave turkey to be safe at last. such painful situations, madam president, expose the ethical pain points in eu-turkey relations.
madam president, our vote on the annual report on turkey comes at a new low point. the text that we are going to adopt is more critical on the rule of law, press freedom, the separation of powers as well as the violence in the south-east. and frankly, we are seeing a pattern that has become predictable but no less concerning, and it frankly seems like we are the only politicians and the only eu institution that is clearly and vocally speaking out. it is very problematic that the european commission and the council have halted their agendas, that the commission delayed its publication of the annual report and that there has been a deafening silence when it comes to human rights violations in turkey recently. we saw vice-president timmermans rushing to shake hands with president erdoğan eight days before critical elections, and i would actually like to see him participate in a debate on turkey in this house. it is key that the council does not outsource its responsibilities on asylum and consider hope a strategy and hope that turkey will solve its problems. the deal on migration has been a toxic one, and i am afraid we have paid the highest price – the price of our credibility, of our principles and of our words. we are clear in our report on what needs to be done, and i hope the commission and the council will change their course.
once again this parliament is making a ridiculous report on turkey and once again it is going straight to the dustbin! turkey has supported isis and made a lot of money. turkey has sent migrants to the eu and made a lot of money. the turkish government is committing crimes against humanity by genocide against the kurdish population. the turkish government is silencing any opposition to its radical islamic agenda. the country is sliding fast towards an islamic dictatorship. the sultan of ankara is accelerating the islamization of the eu. grey wolves are demonstrating in the squares of our capitals, mosques are inciting hatred against our state and culture, migrants are aggressively flooding our towns and cities. i say to the commission: no accession negotiations, no visa-free travel, no money to this corrupt clique! turkey must never become a member of the european union!
the rapporteur is in a very difficult position this year, i think. last year, at the last minute, it took all kinds of phrases out of its report about opening negotiating chapters quickly. and this year there are actually just as few reasons to open those same negotiating chapters. in fact, there is only more concern about the restriction of freedom of expression, turkey's role in regional conflicts, the lack of the rule of law and the lack of respect for minorities. and yet this year's report is again full of references to the opening of these negotiating chapters. turkey has not changed, the world around us has changed. we could easily say - and many colleagues do - that you should not link the discussion this morning on the turkey deal to enlargement, but it is happening nonetheless. let me be very clear, my party, the cda, will vote against the passages on the opening of the negotiating chapters tomorrow. yes, we must cooperate with turkey and i fully support the rapporteur in this, but a president who thinks that you can beat satire hard only shows that he is still very far from how we deal with each other in europe.
the directive on the protection of trade secrets is not only unnecessary but also dangerous for the position of whistleblowers, journalists and trade unions. i now read to you the statement my group received from antoine deltour, the whistleblower behind luxleaks, in english. in 2012, i gave documents to a journalist whose publication triggered the luxleaks scandal. i was awarded the european citizens' award by the european parliament last year for this. but both me and the journalist are now being prosecuted in luxembourg for trade secrets violation. the exemptions provided in this directive to supposedly protect whistle-blowers would not protect me or the journalist, because we did not reveal anything illegal, just immoral. this directive will enable companies to sue anyone who accesses, uses or publishes any information that they consider a trade secret, which, according to the definition provided in the text, can be almost any internal information. it applies to all citizens and not, as it should, to economic competitors only. before you vote on this directive, i urge you to reflect on this question: do you really want a society where it's impossible for the public to access information crucial to the public good? so much for antoine deltour. on april 26th, i will be present at the trial against deltour. i hope i don't have to go in there empty-handed. the committee on budgetary control has already agreed that i will write a report on the goal of whistleblowers in protecting the financial interests of the eu. well, that's something. but it is unacceptable that we have not yet reached any agreement on legislation that actually protects whistleblowers, but we do adopt legislation that directly undermines their position. with the adoption of this directive, no more luxleaks, no more panama papers! but more lawsuits against whistleblowers! i therefore call on my colleagues tomorrow to support our amendment to reject the bill in its entirety.
a pakistani christian wrote to me this week: all hate speech in pakistani textbooks about christians and other religious minorities in the country must be removed immediately. he is absolutely right because, according to the bible, hatred is the root of murder, see the terrible attack in lahore. recent reports support the urgent warning against this mental poisoning of the pakistani youth. this brings me to a pressing question to the european commission: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european union is also providing funds for the pakistani education system and, if so, what are the requirements of brussels for this aid? we are not counting the more than 24,000 madrassas, islamic schools in the country, where hate is particularly often preached against christians and other religious minorities. madam president, a black-and-white set for the lahore massacre! i also believe that aisha bibi and others falsely accused of blasphemy should be released and that the pakistani government should be fully committed to their safety. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i have been studying the situation in pakistan for some time, a country where there are two states, the civilian government and the other powers, including military and terrorist organizations. the situation in pakistan is therefore extremely urgent. the european union and the european parliament would do well to look at the real situation in pakistan, because it is a really explosive situation!
author.– madam president, nigeria is a country so full of potential through natural resources and an enormous human capital that it is sad to see how much of it is wasted through corruption, poverty and violent extremism. it is exactly two years since boko haram abducted the chibok girls and we are still calling to bring back our girls – all of them. it is essential that children go to school and that radicalisation is prevented. the kidnapping, rape, violence and murder must end, and the path of extremist destruction that has displaced millions should be reversed. in fact, the surrender of hundreds of boko haram fighters is an important sign that the promises of a better life under sharia law and extreme circumstances are empty lies that more and more people are recognising. the eu stands ready to help nigeria in countering violent extremism, but we can only contribute fully when the rule of law and human rights are respected in the process. this includes the right to free expression. we therefore call on the senate of nigeria not to adopt laws chilling expression or criticism of the government.
it is important to stress that the refugee crisis is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis and that human suffering cannot be expressed in numbers, but the consequences for the transport sector are also very serious. in response to the refugee flows, member states have introduced unilateral, uncoordinated, temporary border controls. that affects the free movement of persons and goods. this puts schengen under great pressure and we heard the commissioner say: the european commission estimates that the end of schengen could cost the european economy between €5 billion and €18 billion per year, as confirmed by a number of different think tanks in europe. it is estimated that systematic border controls would cost road transport billions of dollars. additional costs in the order of 1.7 to 7.5 billion per year! it is clear that a fundamental european approach is needed to solve the refugee problem, with a real european border and coast guard, with a common approach to asylum and migration procedures in all member states, with the expansion of the possibilities of legal migration, but also - very importantly - with the return to schengen as soon as possible without internal border controls. this is essential to better manage the refugee crisis, firstly from a humanitarian point of view, but also in the interest of a functioning transport sector. i call on the commission to make the impact of the refugee crisis on the transport sector more visible and to go beyond those few paragraphs in the road map for a return to schengen. i call on the commission to quantify the economic damage to road hauliers, shipowners, ports, railway companies, etc., to discuss this regularly with the european parliament and to report on it, so that it becomes clear that europe is indeed paying a price for the current fragmentation of the response to the refugee crisis by the various member states.
last month i was driving with a dutch truck driver to england. it was a night drive and for me, but also for him, it was actually quite exciting, because despite the evacuation of the camp at calais, he still didn't feel safe. his employer's advice was: after ghent or belgium, i'd rather not stop at all! indeed, near the french border, we saw the refugees walking along the highway. and there are incidents that keep happening. take the month of march, for example. stolen bodies found in a truck in ijmuiden, several hit-and-run near calais. the list of incidents is still growing. i understand the commission when it says: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i can be very brief. my group supports the principle of having a debate and a resolution on further issues of concern, but we do not see the reason for having it at this session. there is no great rush so we would propose to do it in may, or june at the very latest. that would actually also allow us, mr legutko, to engage with civil society and parliamentarians from poland and discuss the matter.
first of all, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent work. the court of auditors would also like to thank the commission and the presidency for their presence. my contribution is on the discharge of the parliament's budget. i regret to note that our own president is not here again, despite the fact that we, as a parliament, discharge our own president. i would therefore like to insist once again that the president be present. (the president interrupts the speaker) i hope that message can be conveyed again. and i say that mainly as a dutchman. the last election campaign has made me realize once again how fragile we are as an institution. the debate in the european elections in the netherlands was about one thing, namely the reimbursement of expenses and nothing else. all the other work we do here is being swept away by the public debate in the netherlands about the costs. i would therefore like to stress once again how important it is that we ourselves, as parliament, be transparent about these expenditures. two years ago, on 16 april 2014, we adopted a resolution in plenary requesting the secretary-general to monitor our own general expenditure reimbursement through 'light arrangements'. unfortunately, none of that came home. today there is another amendment calling for this. i would not only ask my colleagues to vote for it, but i would also urge the president to make a real effort this year. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – well mr liberadzki, maybe it was because i was talking dutch, but i was not criticising the president per se. i was not saying ‘mr schulz’ and i was not criticising the president because he was one of the spitzenkandidaten. i was criticising him because we grant discharge to the president of this house – and in national parliaments that is also the rule – and i believe that the president of this house should be present at the debate on the discharge of this organisation. that has nothing to do with political colour or the person in office; it is a general principle, from my side, that i believe that the president of this house should be responsible and should be present. (the speaker agreed to take a second blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i do believe that is important, but i have been repeating this message for years and years, and i believe – since this is our own house, and since we are always criticising the rest of the world, especially the other institutions – that we can also criticise ourselves, and that we should do that more often and look more internally to our own functioning. but i agree with your point.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done. i was her predecessor and i recognise much of the work we did two years ago. a lot has been said about trust. the trust of citizens is at an all—time low and we need to get it back. at the same time, in this debate i often get the feeling that we do not trust the citizens because we are afraid to show the work that we are actually doing. i notice that, despite all the nice words, in all three institutions there is still not a culture of openness and transparency. there is a culture of secrecy and trying to disclose as little as possible. i know what i am talking about because i have carried out so many procedures trying to get access to documents and this even brought me to the luxembourg court twice. we should also realise that transparency is the rule. it is not a fancy liberal choice, but it is the law and we seem to forget that. sometimes we say that we do not need to disclose this or that because we do not like it, it is awkward or we want space to think, but transparency is a legal obligation. if we do not want transparency, secrecy has to be justified specifically. i refer to the resolution that we adopted two years ago that i had the honour of drafting. i note that the follow up to that resolution has been wafer thin. i am actually quite surprised to see that, when it comes to transparency in trialogues, we are actually taking a step back compared to the text that we adopted in 2014. so we were more inclined towards transparency in 2014 than we are in 2016 when the trust of citizens is so low. finally, i think there are three things that we should do which were in the previous resolution: appoint a transparency officer in all institutions, including in the parliament, and the presidency of this house has so far refused to do so; secondly draft an action plan; and, thirdly, we need rules for the classification of documents and a lighter procedure for challenging classification so that we do not need the court.
the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. how can you imagine allowing turkey to join the european union and giving it visa-free travel as an added bonus? i hope that day of reversal is today. one day mr timmermans will realise that the situation of press freedom in turkey is even worse than in tajikistan, that there is no country in the world where so many journalists are imprisoned. i hope that day of reversal is today. one day commissioner hahn will realise that no one benefits from turkey's accession to the european union. the progress report on the situation in turkey, which was recently discussed in this parliament, has never been so negative. i hope that mr hahn will come to a different conclusion today. one day, commissioner avramopoulos will realize that the deal with turkey is dangerous for refugees. reports of turkey's treatment of refugees are overlapping and highly critical. i hope the day of change for mr. avramopoulos is today. there will come a day when mr tusk and mr dijkhoff realise that the deal with turkey is expensive and not working well enough. turkey is an unpredictable partner and the flow of refugees is already moving en masse to libya. i hope today is the day of change. the alternative, mr president, as mr timmermans asked, is that: the eu is organising the reception in north-east syria itself with unhcr. the eu itself takes in refugees directly from syria, and the eu only takes in refugees fleeing religious persecution or war. and the eu is providing even better reception in the region. thank you, sir. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i do not want to talk about turkish accession at all. i find it incomprehensible that there is serious consideration in this parliament of turkey's accession to the european union. this country is miles away from what we as europe have in terms of values and standards. this country is way behind in its human rights record. so i am not in favour of talking about accession. i can imagine that we would invest more in a neighbourhood programme and help turkey to stimulate development, for example in the area of wages. but accession, mr president, is incomprehensible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group recognises that we must be pragmatic and flexible in our response to a crisis, and that means we need agreements with other countries, including turkey, but we need solutions that are legally watertight and that do not fall apart in the blink of an eye. the eu-turkey agreement reminds me bit of a famous painting of the belgian artist magritte – ‘ceci n’est pas un agreement’. if you check the website of the european commission you will note that they have quietly replaced the term ‘agreement’ by ‘statement’ and this happened sometime between 19 april and 20 april, so the legal status of this whole thing has now been downgraded to basically not much more than a joint press release. in addition, key elements of the so-called ‘agreement’ or ‘statement’ or whatever it is, like visa liberalisation, require the formal approval of the european parliament and the member states in a normal legislative procedure. first vice-president timmermans has declared, and i agree, that europe will not be held hostage by the turkish government over visa liberalisation. next week, the european commission will present a progress report on the fulfilment of the requirements for the visa liberalisation roadmap and i am interested to see if the commission will indeed assess progress as strictly as the vice-president has stated. my group is in favour in principle of visa liberalisation, but do not expect a rubber stamping exercise from our side, because if the turkish government intends to convince parliament to vote for visa liberalisation, cracking down on journalists is not a very good strategy. as a signatory to the european convention on human rights, turkey has to respect freedom of expression, and the most recent violation – the arrest of ebru umar, an eu citizen and dutch turkish journalist – will not bring visa liberalisation any closer. as to the implementation of the agreement/statement, minister dijkhoff seemed to be quite positive when he says things are getting better, but that seems to clash with the reports we are getting, for example, from amnesty international and human rights watch about people not being allowed into turkey from syria, or even being returned; reports about people not having the right to apply for asylum; reports about detention conditions in greece and people not even having enough food. so what are you doing to actually verify the situation? do you only rely on answers by the authorities or do you actually do something about it? and what about the waterbed, effect because the commission seems to say that there is no shift from the flow of refugees towards libya and italy but there are more people coming in through that route, so how can we verify that the flow is not simply shifting? this agreement is extremely fragile, both legally and in practice, and it is easy to criticise turkey or the agreement. i agree with mr timmermans that this situation is the direct result of the inability, or the lack of political will, of european governments to agree on a fully-fledged eu asylum and migration policy. we outsource our problems, in the hope that turkey and other countries will keep refugees away from our doorstep, because we failed to agree on our own policies here in the eu. europe is divided, paralysed and weak and erdoğan knows it, so the only answer to this is european unity, but there does not seem to be a big sense of urgency. i think it must therefore be the highest priority for the dutch presidency to put a complete package on the table, including a border and coast guard, legal labour migration, and new dublin rules, because surely if we can agree with the erdoğan government, then we can find agreement between eu governments. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– your question seems to contradict the first part of your statement. but, as i said, we get reports from human rights organisations about people who are in detention centres – so they are unable to leave – and what we hear is that they do not have enough food. we would like to know if that is the case and if the commission and council have verified this. if it is indeed the case, it is a disgrace for europe and the situation should be remedied.
mr dijkhoff, your government is the inventor of the turkey plan, or the merkel plan, or the rutte plan or the samson plan, i can't remember. and mr. timmermans, you went to turkey to further this plan. gentlemen, you may have thought it up, but who's really responsible? you are not responsible for the return of refugees from greece to turkey because it is done under a dusty greek-turkish consultation. you, mr timmermans, are not responsible for what happens in the detention centres, because the greeks are responsible for that. if you were, you would have hopefully done something about the food shortages for adults and children. this debate also concerns democratic control of the agreement with turkey. there's no such thing. i have a strong impression that the legal limbo suits you all very well. because as long as it's unclear who's responsible, it doesn't need to be stopped, and no one needs to take responsibility. mr president, this parliament must clarify where the responsibility lies and whether there is anyone else who is taking responsibility. thank you, sir.
there was a time when the member states of the european union or the european community were respected partners of international organisations. they were the originators of the un refugee convention. they were at the cradle of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. we were proud of the european convention on human rights and we were carrying universal values. today we speak of european values and apparently those european values mean that we can conclude treaties or agreements with countries that violate human rights and which we then think are protecting refugees. there's unrest at the united nations. the high commissioner is not happy with our policy. in our sister organisation, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, one resolution after another is adopted condemning our policies. apparently we want to become the outlaws in the international community to save schengen. i find that unacceptable. i therefore support any initiative by parliament to examine the legality, or rather the illegality, of the deal with turkey. the judge will have to decide on that in the end.
while mr tusk and mr timmermans were drinking tea in turkey last saturday, the same day the critical dutch journalist ebru umar was thrown into prison in turkey. because by voicing her opinion, she stepped on erdoğan's long toes. and the european elite, who are always talking about human rights, freedom of expression and democracy, were watching. nobody talked to the only man who has anything to say in police state turkey. everyone's dancing to erdoğan's tune, afraid he's going to blow the deal. the turkish deal has not only promised the turks 6 billion euros, visa-free travel and accelerated accession, but has also provided an unprecedented tool of blackmail. all thanks to a bunch of unprincipled political cowards who have subjected the european union to a dictator. the pvv says: long live the freedom of speech. do not break off relations with turkey if mrs umar lands as a free person at schiphol on saturday. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. thank you, sir.
last weekend i was in greece to see for myself what the situation is like there. although there are almost no boats coming to the greek islands, there is a great deal of effort to provide decent accommodation for the 55 000 people now stranded in greece. in lesbos, 3,600 people are being held in custody awaiting trial in moria, a camp that normally holds 2,000. my greatest concern is for the 150 children trapped behind fences and barbed wire, the youngest of whom is only eight years old. vulnerable people are rightly not being sent back to turkey. there are special procedures for them. but why do they have to be in detention? why are boys and girls fleeing war locked up? in idomeni, 10,000 people are still in a hopeless situation. just last night, i got a text from ali faouri. he and his family fled syria three months ago. they are now stuck on the greek-macedonian border. ali, along with everyone else there, wants to know what to do. how can he register if he hasn't been able to skype with the asylum service for weeks? how can we guarantee people a speedy processing of their asylum applications? clearly, this is not the time for our government leaders to sit back because people are not coming in. the rest of europe must take responsibility and show solidarity: the european union is committed to providing safe routes for refugees from turkey and greece by providing as soon as possible sufficient places for resettlement. thank you, sir.
the council and the commission have rightly pointed out the advantages of this not perfect agreement. but let us face it, it is an agreement which the european union has had to conclude with turkey out of weakness because we ourselves have no asylum and migration policy, because we ourselves have no comprehensive border protection and because we ourselves have no voice in the region where the problems arise. we will continue to be blackmailed by a country like turkey as long as the eu itself does not get things right. the agreement will therefore have to be accompanied by work on better border control and a real coastguard. i know, and i am addressing this to the presidency, that this will happen. but we also need a comprehensive asylum and migration policy, readmission agreements in trade agreements and in development cooperation, and sufficient manpower to be able to distinguish quickly between economic migrants and genuine refugees, who always need our protection. madam president, the great challenge for europe in this unprecedented situation is to continue to see the human being in the crowd. if we fail to do so, we will be betraying the values which we say we hold dear as europe. thank you, sir.
first of all, i would like to thank all those involved. this was a big file. in fact, the political profile of it is too low, because as you can see, there are not many people in the room. but the file is of great economic importance to the european railway industry. it will also increase rail safety and the competitiveness of european railways towards china, japan and even the united states. another element is the cross-border aspect. trains will be able to travel more easily through the european member states. the modal shift we are pursuing as a political objective is being served and the good news is that the council has just agreed to the political pillar of the fourth railway package. thank you very much.
rapporteur.– mr president, i think we can all be very proud of europe since after this vote we will be the first in the world that has legislation in place to prevent manipulation of important benchmarks like libor and euribor. this is only possible through the good work we did in parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues luděk niedermayer, jonás fernández, kay swinburne and all the staff that were involved. i think we can be proud of this legislation. thank you very much.
mr president, what struck me most about your speech was that you put democracy at the centre. that is why i find it all the more incomprehensible that the conference of presidents has decided not to hold a debate on the dutch referendum held on 6 april. ignoring the result of this referendum is a slap in the face to the dutch people. it is a missed opportunity now to show respect for the dutch people. it is also a missed opportunity for the future, because we will be faced with many more referendums and, as i understand it, there is already one - or several - in the making for ttip.
we are talking today about cohesion policy. cohesion means cohesion, attraction, holding together. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the opposite of the eu! the eu is falling apart. the eu is disintegrating. even the most fanatical eu supporters cannot deny that and cannot deny it now. because the eu is a bad luck magnet, and whether you look at the refugee problem, the euro crisis or trade agreements like ttip, it all boils down to one big failure. on 5 may last year my dear colleague hans jansen passed away and i would like to quote him here because he used to say: "europe has become an incontinent continent because of the eu". the eu has made europe an incontinent continent.
itis and clld initiatives can be used to implement the good agenda of europe at local level. but to succeed, it is crucial that local partners are seen as key players. trust is the magic word. the member states should not be afraid to hand over control. let us experiment more often in europe with these new instruments for territorial development. we are also debating today the question of speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. i am particularly curious to see what lessons the european commission has learned. what will the european commission propose to enable the european structural and investment funds to invest from the outset in the next programming period after 2020?
the epp has asked for this debate and mrs maletić has already said a few things about the question and the resolution. i'll take one point off. commissioner vela, you are the fisheries portfolio manager. all the fishermen in europe know you. there it is. but what is a little bit stuck in cohesion policy here is that this is a shared responsibility with the member states. they have a real problem, so to speak, in indicating that the european stars are appropriate for the projects. joint funding, joint strategy, eu 2020, growth, jobs, sustainability, that is what we are working for. but eventually i find that it sells poorly. i would ask you, in view of what is coming, namely an interim evaluation and a discussion on the future, to communicate better. be good and tell it, better unpack and show it. it happens in regions, it happens in cities, but then... i sometimes come across projects where after two or three years the signs of the eu have long since faded. i ask that we communicate better, as you do for example with the efsi. can you comment on that?
"blue card" question. what is it? i have had the pleasure of visiting the region from which mr etheridge comes and what struck me there was the enormous - and i am sorry to say so - poverty. what i am wondering now, mr etheridge, is how, as an mep, as an elected representative, will you explain that to the people there? how do you do that? by saying: we take your tax money and we take it all over the world, no matter, zimbabwe, everywhere, but we take your money, when you're already so deeply at the bottom of society?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, today’s debate on how to shape the rules-based trade system and how one of our main trade partners, china, can be held to its commitment to fair trade practice is key for europe. we need to ensure eu policies are in place after the protocol of china’s wto accession, which was agreed to 15 years ago, expires. our group feels strongly about not leaving this to the wto courts to decide. not only do we need solid eu trade defence instruments in general, but specifically the eu needs to be able to apply anti-dumping measures in cases of dumping of goods by china beyond the end of this year. our group wants a thorough assessment of the legal consequences of the expiration of the protocol, as well as a long-term legal, economic and political impact assessment. we look forward to seeing the results of the outcome of the public consultation and the commission’s impact assessment. we need eu measures to be wto compliant. it is the only credible way to underline the importance that we adhere to global trade based on rules that apply equally to all. this debate is not, contrary to what the name may suggest, a debate on whether or not china’s economy operates according to free trade and fair competition laws and principles. we share the concerns about state interference, the creation of overcapacity, the lack of transparency and the existence of reliable indicators that can predictably verify whether prices are the result of supply and demand or whether they are kept artificially low. what we do know is that wages and environmental standards are lower in china than they are in the eu. in fact, importers in europe benefit from this aspect of globalisation, and it can also lead to lower prices for consumers. so it is key to look at all sides of this debate, both the short-term implications and the long-term, and particularly also to liaise with our trading partners and key allies in making the right decisions in this complex but impactful file.
shortly after our last debate in february, the european chamber of commerce in china published a report on overcapacity in the people's republic of china. the report concludes that the role of the chinese government in the economy is part of the problem, and that is rather mildly expressed. this is further proof that china is not a market economy. it is all the more reason to make rapid and well-considered decisions on china's market economy status. european industry must be protected and remain protected against unfair competition. i expect that, and our citizens expect that of the council, the commission and this parliament. shortly before this debate i received news from a good friend, a dutch worker. he's home now, he used to work in the steel industry. it is the faces and the threat of unemployment that should certainly guide us in this debate on the market economy status for china. fair trade and fair competition? unfortunately, that's not the case here.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the country is a patient that needs a financial infusion every six months. it has already cost 215 billion euros, and what has happened to this money? a small 10 billion went into the greek budget. almost 140 billion has been used to pay off french and german bank loans, to save these banks. the european citizens must bleed for the mistakes of the european elite. in the case of the netherlands, it is already about 25 billion euros. money we'll never get back. money coughed up by hardworking dutchmen. think of what we could all have done with those billions, for health care, for our seniors, for pensions, for strengthening our borders, for our security. the president of the council of ministers, mr rutte, promised during the elections: "no more penny to greece". what a perverted liar. the netherlands, like so many european countries, such as greece, was given a policy of demolition and cuts before the elections. all to artificially keep the bankrupt eu and the bankrupt euro alive. this money faucet has to close. no more billions to greece, no more grabbing at the pensions of european citizens. the euro must be abolished. greece must return to the drachma. enough is enough.
when wolfgang schäuble arrived at the euro group yesterday, he said that greece had made wrong decisions and had to pay the price. it reminds me of a tantalus sting: the moment the target approaches, the target is moved. greece has undergone a massive budgetary adjustment. it was necessary, but it was unparalleled. and yet the target has been moved. last year a surplus of three and a half per cent was agreed. so, in addition to the wrong decisions of greece, we can also talk about the unrealistic demands of the eu countries. christine lagarde has called the target of 3.5 percent unrealistic and the imf has acknowledged that the issue of debt relief should have been on the agenda as early as 2010. it is therefore time for the eu countries to look critically at their own actions and demands. not because i believe in schäuble's guilt and penance, but because i think you can learn from mistakes. as from 24 may it must be clear that greece will receive such debt relief that greece can stand on its own feet again.
for the ecr group earlier this year, in february, jordan's king abdullah warned that his country had reached a boiling point because of the influx of hundreds of thousands of syrian refugees. the facts speak for themselves. syrian refugees now make up 20 percent of the total jordanian population. as a result, the hashemite kingdom is forced to spend as much as 25 percent of its national budget on them. the budgetary stretch in amman is therefore completely gone. eu assistance in this critical situation in the form of creating necessary jobs think of boosting the tourism sector and improving market access for jordanian products to the european market is more than welcome. i wholeheartedly support the requests made by the jordanian authorities in this resolution. the situation in lebanon is even more dramatic. there, syrian refugees already make up 25 percent of the total population. moreover, 90 percent of these syrian refugees are non-sunni, with all the implications for the delicate religious balance between sunnis, shiites and christians in the country. new lebanese visa measures for syrians have now led to large-scale illegal syrian immigration into the country. the sad result is that currently 70 percent of syrian refugees in lebanon are in abject poverty. just last month, a research report revealed that 70 percent of syrian refugee children in lebanon are ruthlessly exploited in the labor market. an insider told me that there is slavery and human trafficking on a large scale, not to mention the abhorrent sexual slavery that syrian women are suffering physically and mentally in lebanon. i would ask you, high representative, to urge the lebanese authorities to address the abuse of children and women by syrian refugees in their own country and to ensure that their human dignity is protected to the fullest.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her heartfelt remarks today on a very tough situation in which too many people find themselves. the risk, danger and additional human suffering of a destabilised lebanon – and that is what i will focus on – must not be underestimated, because the vast majority of the approximately 1.2 refugees in lebanon are young and female. with a population of 4 million people in total, no other country is sheltering so many – until recently, with open borders. the lebanese people are five times as poor as the average european, and 25% of the population are refugees. let those who claim that we are the first to suffer the consequences of the ongoing terrible war in syria, think again and look to lebanon. it should humble and shame all of us. let the situation in lebanon we are discussing today be a reality check for those who still preach shelter in the region as a mantra that will be a self-fulfilling prophecy, or who see the outsourcing of our problems to turkey as the only credible solution. do we plan to do as comprehensive a deal with lebanon, or only when people reach our shores? this would be too cynical, but we do have to look at what is spent per capita, also in lebanon, and make sure that we look at the bigger picture, including stability, infrastructure, countering terrorism and countering radicalisation.
for the ecr group by financing illegal construction projects in area c of the west bank, the eu is violating the 1995 oslo accords, to which it is a signatory. this unilateral action by the eu, albeit under the guise of humanitarian aid, is in breach of israel's military and administrative powers in area c. the eu's arbitrary action in area c only deepens the impasse in the israeli-palestinian conflict. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i therefore urge the high representative to call for an immediate halt to all european aid to illegal construction projects in area c. and it is strange to me that on the very night that israel remembers its fallen in the wars and its victims of terrorism - it is about the bigger picture - we are here again to israelbash. not a word about the hamas terror tunnels. there is also talk of the two-state solution, but then you have to tell me when mahmoud abbas recognized israel as a jewish state, let alone hamas. i do not hear any clarity on this from the eu side. and then talk about a two-state solution! it 's more than hypocritical . it's irresponsible. it is european self-disqualification in israel and also in the region. it is high time for political reflection in the midst of all the crises that are plaguing brussels today.
"blue card" question. what is it? unfortunately, this solidarity is lacking. there is a large group of member states which do not want to cooperate on a joint concept. that is a regrettable but realistic fact and we must find an answer to it. now you may say that solidarity must be established, but we must have a means of enforcing it. the means chosen now are far too heavy and out of proportion. how do you propose to address this lack of solidarity and yet ensure that care is provided jointly?
refugees are future-oriented. they think about a safe place now, but they also think about their children and what kind of existence those children will have in the future. member states seem to be living in the present: i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of controls on the movement of persons, which is now being introduced in the member states. the european commission is generally forward-looking. mr avramopoulos, you are here for the future of europe and its citizens, and we want to work together for stability in the region. so the urgency must be very great for you to make such a short-sighted proposal to change the dublin system. my question to you is: what can we do to help you? for the future of europe and for the future of those refugee children. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for your attention to the issue of missing children. if children could have come to europe legally, they wouldn't be missing now, that's one. secondly, i think that a lot of children who have arrived in greece or italy have registered there. then, like many refugees, they set off on foot to join their families elsewhere. and that is something that we all allow because we have an asylum policy under the motto 'survival of the fittest'.
first, bringing unlimited fortune seekers to europe, pushing european countries into a gigantic crisis, and then proposing more european union as a solution: that is what the european commission is doing over and over again, on the way to a european superstate. so is today. but it could be crazier! because if a country declares that it can no longer cope with the influx, if it wants to defend itself against the tsunami of asylum seekers and additional islamization by closing its borders, it can expect a fine of up to eur 250 000 per asylum seeker. solidarity is what mr timmermans calls it. i said: it's totally crazy. the ruins of the european union cannot be solved by more european union. and you're not gonna solve it by blackmailing me and threatening me with fines. it is not solved by taking away more sovereignty from the member states. i therefore call on you to abandon these plans and to let the countries take back control of their own borders.
blue-card question.– i hear you say we should take as many people as we are able to take in, referring to a kind of absorption rate. so what are you going to say to the people who are fleeing a war situation, who come to europe and who, according to your definitions, we cannot absorb any more? what are you going to say to them? but my more important question is: do you not think that it is an absolute disgrace to have that kind of language in the richest, most prosperous, freest and safest continent in the world, to say that we actually do not have the capacity to take those people in?
all member states must cooperate in finding solutions for the reception of refugees. unfortunately, it is impossible to make a compulsory distribution of refugees across the member states, but in the light of this political reality, we must think of alternatives. a fine of a quarter of a million euros per rejected asylum seeker, that's a lot of blood. in this way the commission is imposing a very large amount of pressure on the member states. this proposal will divide europe and that is the wheat on the mill for geert wilders and his european political friends. my counterproposal is: the commission has also proposed to set aside eur 5 billion per year from the structural funds to support member states which take in asylum seekers. half of this money comes from the cohesion fund, the fund which mainly benefits countries which have not yet cooperated. i think this is a fair, budget-neutral solution which will, above all, prevent further european division.
it is disappointing to see that our governments in europe lack the support and political courage to make a thorough review of the dublin agreements and thus the willingness to work towards a genuine common european asylum policy based on solidarity and shared responsibility. that is why we must do so with this proposal from the european commission. not a big leap forward, just a small step in the right direction. for example, the proposed distribution key prevents member states from having to come to the table again and again to quarrel over which country should take in how many people when another member state cannot temporarily cope with the influx. the proposed penalties for countries which refuse to honour previously agreed agreements do not deserve the prize of beauty. it is too bizarre to say that we must enforce solidarity within the eu, but unfortunately the current situation, in which some countries are reluctant to take in refugees at all, leaves the commission with no other choice. i would urge the european governments to speed up this decision. thousands of people in italy and greece are still waiting for the promised redistribution. we cannot leave the countries on the periphery of europe to take the blame for this humanitarian crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of the alde group i am very glad that we are having this debate. we requested it because we welcome the roadmap that was presented by the commission for restoring a fully-functioning schengen system. however, in practice we do not see much progress. we see more, rather than less, border controls. we see walls being put up, not broken down, and a couple of days ago we even heard about a violent incident on the border of one of the schengen countries with refugees being shot at, so the situation is actually getting worse, not better. maybe schengen is not yet dead but it is certainly on life support. what i would like to know from the commission is how strictly are you applying the criteria, because you keep saying it has to be necessary and proportionate, but that seems to have become a bit of a mantra because we do not see border controls disappearing. i do not see any steps in the direction of abolishing them. we seem to think that it is a kind of replacement for a fully-fledged refugee and security policy or a replacement for a european border and coast guard, but this is in the hands of the member states. the member states should take their responsibility and no longer hesitate about a common asylum policy, the common security policy and a border and coast guard, rather than reinstating border controls. i think it has been said by others that schengen is a great achievement and the current border controls come at a huge economic cost, so we have every interest in abolishing the border controls as quickly as possible. i would really like to know from the commission: how do you assess the recurrent requests from the member states for authorising border checks? quite frankly i have not seen many cases where the commission has said: sorry, this is simply not justified. when we say it has to be ‘exceptional and temporary’ we are talking about, i believe, six schengen countries now, or eight, for a very extended period of time. that does not sound like exceptional and temporary. i understand that you are under a lot of pressure from the member states who want the commission to actually clean up the mess left by the member states, but i really hope that you will resist the pressures.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by saying that i consider this debate as a truly useful opportunity to hear the views of this house on the issue. from the outset i must however underline that my own comments will be preliminary. the council has just started examining the report presented by the commission; in other words there is no council position yet. first of all i would like to stress that visa liberalisation for turkey is a long-standing commitment. it was decided to start this process back in 2011. the roadmap was adopted already in 2013 and what did the eu-turkey statement do on 18 march? it accelerated the existing process. secondly, i would like to stress that visa freedom for turkey is something that benefits, at the very end, all parties concerned. not only can turkish citizens travel to europe more easily, but the millions of europeans visiting turkey for holidays or business, for example, can also do so more easily. it will facilitate people-to-people contact. it was, i believe, one of your meps, judith sargentini – i do not know whether she is in the chamber today – who said it is also about the turkish human rights defenders who will be able to travel to europe freely to tell their story. in other words this is not just a present for president erdoğan, neither should it be seen as just a concession by europe to turkey. it is something from which we all, at the very end, benefit. now in the commission’s third report it is concluded that turkey has achieved remarkable progress. however it also becomes abundantly clear that turkey has not yet managed to fulfil all 72 benchmarks. seven benchmarks remain unfulfilled. regarding two of these seven outstanding requirements, the commission has noted that for practical and procedural reasons, turkey needs a longer timeline for implementation. with regard to the biometric passports, the practical solution consists of limiting visa freedom to the holders of the latest generation of biometric passports. when it comes to turkey’s obligation to build up a track record under the eu-turkey readmission agreement, we simply need a bit more time as this agreement only becomes effective next month. for the other five requirements, the commission has invited the turkish authorities to undertake urgently the measures that are necessary to fulfil these benchmarks. in other words, turkey has a lot of homework to do and i also, from this chair, urge the turkish government to intensify its efforts. now as you know, we have, besides turkey, visa freedom proposals also on the table for georgia, ukraine and kosovo. at the same time the commission has presented a proposal to amend regulation 539 with a view to revising the current suspension mechanism. the main objective is to strengthen this mechanism by making it easier for member states to notify circumstances leading to a possible suspension, and by enabling the commission to trigger the mechanism on its own initiative, and yes, at a time when we are considering granting visa liberalisation to a 130 million citizens, it is only natural to look again at the current suspension mechanism. the commission’s proposal responds to a broadly-felt need in the council to have a more effective mechanism and we are grateful to the commission for this proposal. it will undoubtedly facilitate decision-making. it is now up to us, parliament and the council, as co-legislators, to start working on the different proposals and as i said work in the council has started. the council’s visa working party met this morning and if one thing becomes clear from the initial discussions, it is that this is by no means an easy decision. what also came out of the discussions is the firm determination of all member states to stick to a merit-based approach. we will not take a decision based on political expediency. turkey needs to fulfil the benchmarks and i do trust that this house shares that conviction. there is broad consensus within council to advance quickly on the revision of the suspension and monitoring mechanism with the aim of agreeing a position at the justice and home affairs council of 20 may. that is the good news. in closing, the presidency will take the necessary measures to make sure that all proposals are discussed in a timely manner in the council and that talks with parliament are started as soon as you are in a position to do so.
member of the commission. – madam president, on 4 may the commission presented its third report on turkey’s progress in fulfilling the requirements of its visa liberalisation roadmap dating from 2013, in parallel to comply with the strict timeframe set by the eu member states heads of state and government and on the understanding that the turkish authorities will take the necessary measures to fulfil all the outstanding benchmarks. on 4 may the commission also presented a proposal to transfer turkey to the list of visa-free countries. the commission’s proposal opens the way for the european parliament and the member states to decide to lift turkish citizens’ visa requirements once the benchmarks have been met. it also gives – and it is equally important – adequate time for consulting the national parliaments on this issue. let me underline that in the last months, the turkish authorities have made really substantial progress in fulfilling the visa liberalisation roadmap, with a further acceleration since the 18 march eu-turkey summit. as a result of this, for example, they are now fully cooperating with greece on readmission. we see a clear reduction of the number of irregular arrivals in greece from 6 000 a day in october 2015 to around 140 with a continuing downward trend. we also have to commend turkey for hosting around 2.7 million syrian refugees and more than 200 000 non-syrian asylum seekers and refugees, granting to all of them free access to healthcare and education, and now also to legal employment. meanwhile, they are also improving the asylum procedures. they have ratified all international conventions and protocols and judicial cooperation indicated by the visa liberalisation roadmap, and as requested by the roadmap they have also adopted several pieces of legislation, for instance on trafficking in human beings and on judicial cooperation and on equality and anti-discrimination, and action plans on social inclusion of citizens with a roma background, on corruption, in the fight against drugs trafficking, in the fight against organised crime which they are starting to implement. but let me be clear as well that there is still progress to be made. this implies for turkey to take the following steps: to adopt measures to fight against corruption in line with the recommendations of the council of europe; to align its legislation on personal data protection with eu standards; to conclude an operational cooperation agreement with europol; to offer effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters to all member states; and last but not least, the need to better align with the european standards its legislation and practices on terrorism. in the eu-turkey statement of 18 march, the turkish authorities expressed their determination to fulfil all benchmarks of the visa liberalisation roadmap by june. i am confident they remain committed to implement all aspects of that statement. in any case, the commission will continue to monitor closely the fulfilling of these benchmarks, and naturally i and my services will ensure that you are regularly updated. we have to remain optimistic that the turkish authorities will give that final push before the end of june. i want to be clear: this agreement is beneficial for both sides. we are not watering down our standards in order to provide visa-free, but we are doing everything we can to provide support and expertise to the turkish authorities to accelerate what are also quite important reforms in their own right. what is also important in their path towards the european union? the implementation of visa reforms will not only contribute to the internal welfare of turkey but will also help the eu and turkey to develop effective cooperation within the framework of the global strategy that we are building with this key neighbour. we are confronted with the same challenges. cooperation is necessary. i will give an example. only yesterday turkey was hit by another terrorist attack. i take this opportunity to express my thoughts for those injured, and my indignation. terrorism must be condemned in every form and everywhere. and we know how sensitive the issue of terrorism is for turkey. but this proves how beneficial the close cooperation with europol is for both sides. for this to be achieved, turkey needs to further align its data protection standards to the european ones. not just because this is required by the roadmap, but because the reforms required by the roadmap are the basis for an even stronger cooperation on both security and migration, with sensitive data exchanges that need adequate protection. it is true that turkey is considering this cooperation as a catalyst, i would say, to reenergise our relations as well as its european perspective. indeed, it is an opportunity for turkey to come closer to the european standards on all issues. the fulfilment of the visa liberalisation roadmap is an important step towards this direction. i would now like to mention another element of the package, adopted on 4 march. the commission also proposed to revise the existing suspension mechanism of the visa-free regime. i want to be very clear on this. the suspension mechanism is not about turkey. it is a horizontal provision which will apply to all visa-free countries and not only turkey. i hope that the co-legislators will look favourably at this proposal, although it should not delay the deliberations and the adoption of the visa liberalisation proposal.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, firstly let me make very clear that my group, in principle, is in favor of visa liberalisation for the reasons set out by minister hennis. yet i am unhappy with the debate we are having because, quite frankly, i have great personal respect and appreciation both for minister hennis and commissioner avramopoulos, and i realise that you have to represent the official view of the council and the commission. but we should really be having this debate with the architects of this unsavoury deal with turkey, where they made a trade-off between the reception of refugees and granting of visa liberalisation. we want to judge turkey on its merits and not because there has been a sell-out by, amongst other people, mr timmermans. the criteria must be fulfilled, and, if i listen to the presentation – also on monday in libe by the commission, who says: well, we are nearly there, there are just a few little details to be concluded here and there – they are not details: we can all see what is happening in turkey. so what you are saying, on behalf of your institutions, is simply not reality. anybody who watches television or reads a newspaper knows that that is not the case. just today we hear that, through his office’s advisers, mr erdoğan makes it known to the european parliament that, if the european parliament takes the wrong decision, he will let the refugees travel to europe. that is blackmail in my book – and why is europe open to blackmail? because we are weak and divided. why are we weak and divided? because the national government leaders fail to agree on a common eu refugee policy. that is why they find it easier to make deals with a dictator like mr erdoğan than to agree amongst themselves – leaders of eu countries on a proper eu common refugee policy. now council, go home and do your homework. get us the refugee policy; get us the border and coastguard, and do not make us vulnerable to blackmail by people like erdoğan. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
"blue card" question. what is it? yes, the lady in the field is saying here that we should judge turkey by its actions, but those actions have been perfectly clear for months, if not years. journalists are disappearing in prisons, refugees are being mistreated in camps, and now refugees have even been shot at. you don't expect mr. erdogan to turn around like a leaf on a tree tomorrow and say: "oh, sorry, i'm going to do better now"? so my question to you is: when will your group pull the plug? let's just cut this deal and work on a plan b!
"blue card" is the answer. mr. van dalen, for your information, this is the man i'm looking for. we've been very critical of this deal. we didn't close it either. that was the commission and the member states and also the dutch presidency. i didn't need that deal. but the plug out? turkey is more than just mr. erdogan and his government and you never slam the door completely. and yes, we want to work with the turkish people. yeah, we want people to people or person to person contact and you're always looking to the future. but it is crystal clear that at the moment, with mr erdogan, we will not be able to achieve visa liberalisation or, indeed, accession.
we are watching with great concern the developments surrounding the turkey deal. the point of contact for europe in ankara, prime minister davutoglu, has been pushed aside. president erdogan criticizes europe every day, he refuses to revise anti-terrorism legislation and his advisers are now threatening to send refugees through to europe. we have reached a low point and we cannot afford to remain dependent on the whims of the turkish president. europe must be able to control its own borders and to control the flow of refugees. that is why we need a european plan, and that plan is apparently being worked on. can the commission confirm this? in the meantime, we must be very clear: 72 conditions are 72 conditions, period. i would also like to ask minister hennis to guarantee here that this item will not be put on the council's agenda until all 72 conditions have been met. this isn't just about anti-terrorism legislation. we have seen examples of convicted criminals in european countries sitting on a turkish beach in their bathing suits and not being extradited (condition 47). we have seen examples of refugees being shot at, while the commission claims that turkey is complying with international refugee law (condition 14). i would like to have an answer from the commission on these two points. and then, last but not least, a very important point: how will the european commission ensure that the reforms turkey is implementing are more than just a paper reality and are also being implemented in practice? would it not be extremely sensible to ask for an external review of this matter from the venice commission, for example?
madam president, the time when turkish people feel least european is when they wait in line for a visa. this statement was made by a former turkish eu minister some years ago, and i believe it is still valid today. the lengthy and bureaucratic procedure to obtain a visa is of great nuisance for turkish citizens who want to travel to the eu for business, studies or simply for enjoying their holidays. it is therefore good that the eu and turkey started negotiations two years ago in order to lift this visa requirement. as part of the eu—turkey deal on refugees, it was agreed that the eu is willing to accelerate that process if and when turkey meets all 72 criteria. but while accelerating that process was part of the deal, lowering our standards certainly was not. let us be honest: turkey over the last few months has come much closer to meeting the set of technical standards than any of us would have thought possible, but the commission has also made it clear that there are still five criteria where turkey does not fulfil the benchmarks. among these are the fight against corruption, an independent data protection authority and, most importantly, turkey’s very broadly defined anti-terror legislation – the same anti-terror legislation which has been criticised for many years by us here in parliament, not because turkey does not have the right to fight against islamic state, pkk or other terrorist groups, but because this law is used to jail journalists and silence academics. labelling all voices of dissent as terrorists is what makes this law unacceptable. just like the current attempt to lift the immunity of 129 members of parliament, including almost the entire hdp parliamentary faction, this will certainly not bring turkey closer to european standards nor bring it closer to restarting their much needed peace process. we must not undermine our own values by being lenient and give turkey a free ride on some crucial benchmarks that still need to be fulfilled, just for the sake of keeping an eu—turkey deal alive.
the european union is not satisfied with an invasion of asylum seekers, because by allowing 80 million turks to travel without a visa, the european union is also going to provoke a turkish invasion. in the netherlands alone, 400 000 turks will soon be able to invite their neighbours, cousins, brothers and acquaintances to come and stay in our country. because more and more illegal immigrants are coming from countries that no longer require visas. we must protect western culture, democracy and freedom. turkey is not part of the eu. turkey has nothing to do with democracy, freedom of expression and equality between men and women. and erdogan shows us that every day. we must never bow to islam. we cannot bow to an islamic dictator and it is a disgrace that you are still doing business with dictator erdogan. that's why the turkey deal has to be scrapped today, visa-free travel thrown in the trash. and let the turks know that they can never, ever become a member of the european union.
better half turned than all lost. this is the conclusion reached by professor zürcher of leiden this week. he returned a turkish decoration he had received in 2005. he said: "i was wrong. turkey cannot be part of europe". our political leaders must now say so out loud. hats off to mr. zürcher. i say it clearly today: stop the deal with despot erdogan. he's throwing journalists in jail, he's closing churches, he's intimidating refugees in camps, he's shooting at them at the borders. turkey cannot become a member of the european union. i shall listen carefully to the commission and the council presidency to see if they have the courage to recognize their mistakes today and to reverse them and to start on plan b now. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i'm not sure this is a question. mr buonanno criticism of the commission. i think you 're asking: if you had a magic wand, what would you want? my alternative proposal is to reserve the greek islands for the reception of refugees. that's really good. then we'll have a good handle on the money and we can decide what we do on those islands. we'll be able to register people there. we can decide very well which genuine refugees we will let pass through europe and which we will not. and we have no problem with discussions on turkish accession or visa-free travel. so plan b: that's great!
we are here with a very large number of tax spokesmen. i'm sure you've all done something i did this afternoon: on twitter, you can type in #panamapapers. and what do you see? it's not about panama or the panama canal anymore. it's an endless stream of tweets, angry tweets mostly, from citizens about the latest revelations, especially now that the offshore leaks are all online as well. what is the point? that it went from being a european discussion about luxleaks to now being a global discussion. the good news today is that panama is now also seeking to comply with the oecd guidelines. that is the gain of the panama leaks, namely that we now have a good proposal not only here in europe - a proposal which the alde group also supports - to no longer have a non-binding voluntary exchange of data between tax authorities, but a mandatory and automatic exchange, and that this is also extended to the rest of the world. because if we just put a fiscal cordon around europe, we are not there yet. fortunately, commissioner moscovici has just indicated that he will also fight for this on the international stage. we must ensure that we do not disturb our playing field in europe. at the same time, we must ensure that we achieve what we all want to achieve, which is that everyone pays their fair share of taxes, from the individual citizen to the largest multinational. finally, i would like to thank mr rosati for his excellent report and also for the extremely pleasant cooperation we have had in the negotiating team.
let me start on the positive. the european commission seems to have seen the light and is making a welcome change. that is what i thought when commissioner moscovici published the economic forecasts last week. the economic outlook no longer focuses on reforms, but this time on the commission's concern about the growing inequality in europe. better half turned than all lost. i fully endorse this analysis. a more equal society is not just fairer. it's also a proven recipe for economic growth. it was also the reason for the oecd to ring the bell and call on countries to take action. the commissioner just said that our social model is fit for purpose. but if that were the case, we wouldn't be dealing with rising unemployment and rising inequality. in recent years, the european commission has paid little attention to the uneven results of the compelling advice to member states to cut back on the welfare state. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. i am therefore very curious to see what conclusions the commissioner will draw from his own new insights. is there a change in the direction of policy advice to member states? will there be policies that counter rather than reinforce inequality? and secondly: will there be a greater role for trade unions? after all, labour income has been falling for years. the employees are getting a smaller and smaller piece of the pie. the top of the corporate world and the shareholders are walking away with most of the profits. if we put inequality on the agenda, not for charity but because it threatens prosperity, then it has to be about more than analysis. we must take concrete action to combat inequality.
i understand that some consumers want to know where the ingredients in processed foods come from. however, i am not in favour of the eu making it compulsory to mention this on the label. i want you to imagine: a bowl of breakfast yogurt. that yogurt is made from milk, milk powder, fruit, grains and sugar from different countries. the proposal would make it compulsory to indicate the origin of all these ingredients. that's going to be a long tag. the administrative burden and controls for this origin labelling cause higher costs and thus a higher price. a higher price that the consumer is not always willing to pay. in addition, some manufacturers already voluntarily indicate the origin of ingredients on their labels in order to distinguish their products from others. in other words, if the consumer really wants to know where the ingredients come from and also wants to pay for these extra costs, they can just do that. the eu does not need to intervene in this respect.
compulsory labelling of origin is a political instrument of some regions and member states for their own product marketing, at the expense of farmers, at the expense of the european food sector and at the expense of our internal market. this has nothing to do with the fight against food fraud, but with the unrelenting protectionism of member states. food fraud is tackled with equal enforcement across the eu, with effective inspection and not with unnecessary and useless additional bureaucratic requirements on origin labelling for ingredients. fresh meat must already be traceable and the origin must already be indicated on the label. i'm not going to introduce double bureaucracy. how is our butcher supposed to start chopping his balls or labeling his sausages? how should a dairy cooperative separate its milk by origin and set up separate production streams? compulsory labelling leads to excessive extra production costs for our smes and for the food sector. the origin labelling is a threat to agricultural jobs, because it can increase production costs by 8 to 45%, as we read in the commission's report. this is a serious disadvantage for food businesses in the union's border regions. their ingredients are often sourced from several member states. the consumer, meanwhile, is not prepared to pay for the slightest price increase in the store. the price pressure of these enormous additional costs is thus, as so often happens, being passed on to our farmers, who are already in a crisis. the compulsory labelling of origin is an unworkable, unaffordable bureaucratic burden for the craft sector and entrepreneurs, a bureaucratic burden which we, the epp group, want to reduce together with the european commissioner frans timmermans. don't do this to the consumer. the consumer does not want mandatory origin labelling, which would result in such a large price increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species.
we are talking about european interference with working conditions, namely parental leave. the rapporteur herself says in her own report that social security is a matter for the member states and not for the european union. the proposal is therefore simply contrary to the treaty, to the agreements reached in the ilo and to the legal obligation in the dutch consultation on working conditions to have open and genuine consultations with the social partners. in short, the whole directive is illegal, reprehensible, but also contrary to all the agreements that have been made. why are we even discussing this in this parliament? that is because this parliament considers itself to be a higher moral authority, because this parliament does not believe in subsidiarity and because the european parliament arrogantly thinks it knows better than millions of workers, employers and trade unions, who have been achieving results for decades.
one day to pick up mother and child from the hospital and one day to register the child with the municipality, that's what dutch men get paid parental leave in 2016. and after those two days, get back to work. meanwhile, a father is missing a wonderful part of parenthood. there are arrangements for payment in caos. when caos provide for paid parental leave, you see that fathers are more likely to take it. but legally, there are only two paid parental leave days for fathers. the father is missing something, but the mother is missing something essential, because by staying at home for a long time, she loses her connection with her work and loses her skills and experience. so it's not just the parents who are hurt, but the economy and society as a whole. that is why i am so pleased with mrs arena's proposal, because it challenges the commission to come up with real modern proposals for a modern division of labour and care, which challenges and stimulates parents, and which does not impose choices but allows choices.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the illegal annexation of crimea by russia has also led to a growth in violations of the rights of minorities such as the indigenous crimean tatars, who are increasingly identified as terrorists and who are facing violence, forced disappearance and even killings, and the so—called authorities are not investigating or prosecuting the perpetrators. what is more, the mejlis is now banned, and we call on the eu to help and assist so that they can meet in exile. the restrictions to access to the osce, the un, the council of europe and human rights ngos are another bad sign, and so are the restrictions on freedom of the press and freedom of expression. all these restrictions of rights – and particularly the persecution of minorities of the crimean tatars, which actually seem politically motivated – must end, and so should the illegal annexation of crimea altogether.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from this vote because there are two conflicting interests which the sp considers to be of equal value. on the one hand, i believe that the consumer has a right to know where milk and meat come from. on the other hand, the obligation threatens to impose an unreasonable burden on small businesses. the sp therefore preferred that voluntary labelling should have been allowed first, or that small farms should be excluded in the event of mandatory labelling.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from this vote because there are two conflicting interests which the sp considers to be of equal value. on the one hand, i believe that the consumer has a right to know where milk and meat come from. on the other hand, the obligation threatens to impose an unreasonable burden on small businesses. the sp therefore preferred that voluntary labelling should have been allowed first, or that small farms should be excluded in the event of mandatory labelling.
in writing. ‒ speak up for the defenseless, defend the rights of the oppressed. this text from the bible book of proverbs fits well with this morning's discussion. thousands of women are trafficked into prostitution in europe every year. their situation is clear: this is modern slavery. we speak for them today and we want justice for them too. the bearder report rightly focuses on the demand side of human trafficking, calling it the 'driving force'. in countries where the purchase of sexual services has been criminalized, trafficking in women has decreased. a new french law fines customers. in my own country, the netherlands, my party is working on an initiative law which will deal with clients who knowingly use a prostitute who is forced to do her work. people are not commodities, and prostitution is not a normal profession! i supported this resolution because it contains many good elements. but i voted against the paragraphs that refer to abortion.
the commission is proposing to harmonize all the rules on internet purchases and to make it a single market. this is not at all illogical, but it is a lot at once and it also means that the specific problems facing smes and consumers are sometimes not solved. i'll give you two examples, there are many. the commission acknowledges that smes often have difficulty in being visible in the results of search engines such as google or on price comparison websites. large companies have more money to get priority on such platforms and the result is that the consumer does not get a complete overview of all providers. although this is an acute problem for smes, the commission will first study this for six months to see if it can be solved by self-regulation. i think that's a missed opportunity. every day that a company is not visible on platforms is costing revenue and further undermining the level playing field. i therefore call for more support in this area. a very different example: a practical problem facing consumers is the interest on concert tickets. in its proposals, the commission is insisting on the rule that a website offering such tickets should charge the same price to all consumers in the european union. that is good, but a much bigger problem is the lack of transparency of the various ticket providers. for example, large quantities may be resold by hand and tickets sold out on the organisation's website but offered at high prices via other online merchants. will the commission do something about this?
madam president, earlier this month japanese prime minister abe toured europe to prepare for the g7. he had a clear message for his european colleagues: governments must do more to stimulate the economy. and there's more reason for that now than ever, because china is seeing economic problems and the other emerging countries are already having those problems. and the g7 has traditionally been the forum for some sort of economic coordination. it's not surprising that shinzō abe is making a plea. he's clearly the inventor of it. he wants to break the deflationary spiral in japan, but the european reaction is not surprising either. the european economic powers continue to refuse, and in particular mr schauble of germany. after the g7 finance ministers' summit last week, his only response was: the commission has already taken a number of measures. but the japanese prime minister is right: structural reforms are not enough. european governments will have to do more to stimulate demand and encourage investment. i fear that the g7 summit will end with a rebuke to the european divisions to face the problems we have here, which we cannot shift to the outside.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by echoing the last words of mrs stevens that we want to have an operational privacy shield as soon as possible. the problem is that this privacy shield is very unlikely to be operational. we are here today thanks to a young man called max schrems who was stubborn enough to litigate before the court for many, many years and to do what the eu institutions should have done, namely stand up for the interests of the eu citizens. because i recall that this house has called repeatedly for the repeal of safe harbour and the commission did not move, so it took one austrian student to make sure that safe harbour was repealed. now i am not the least bit convinced that things like written assurances or an ombudsman or a review are going to do the trick. my doubts are shared and in different wordings by working party 29, working party 31, the edps and various legal experts. so i do not understand why we have to keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again. we have a responsibility and a duty to make good-quality legislation and here it seems to me that the commission is ready to take a decision knowing that it will not stand up in court. this is not about making political compromises – you know, maybe i could agree with mr voss or maybe not – that is all not relevant. there is only one yardstick: is this, yes or no, schrems-proof? and i am not yet convinced that it is. it is an improvement, it is a step forward, and i am glad that the commission is willing to discuss further adaptations, but ultimately this is also about the us getting access to a market of 500 million consumers, so they too have an interest in moving. finally, we did not say anything about the umbrella agreement in the resolution, we will come back to it, but i would really like two things. i would like, first of all, for the european commission, before we talk about giving consent or anything, to finally declassify the reply it gave to the question of libe about the legal status and the scope of the umbrella agreement compared with other legal instruments – really give us this information. this is only a legal assessment, how secret can it be? secondly, the commission itself has clearly stated that removing the exemptions to the privacy act in the us is a precondition for the umbrella agreement to be valid. we all know that those exemptions are not going to be removed, so can somebody please explain to me how we can realistically expect the umbrella agreement ever to apply – please clarify this for me.
mr president, transatlantic data flows are the largest in the world. the exchange rate between europe and the united states is as high as 15 terabytes per second: it's very important for our economy. our society is rapidly becoming digital and this is where our future opportunities lie. the legal vacuum and uncertainty created last year has led to much unrest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safeguard measures are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the new privacy shield must therefore strike two birds with one stone. on the one hand, of course, the protection of the data of our citizens, but on the other hand, and certainly as important, the provision of a measure of legal certainty to our companies that use these transatlantic data flows. i welcome the work done by the european commission, the progress which has been appreciated by many people here today and certainly the commitment made today by commissioner jourová to pay attention to the remaining recommendations of working party 29 in the coming weeks. our call is actually very simple: this summer, make sure there is a good privacy shield, one that makes european citizens feel safe and allows businesses to move forward.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, once again we have on our agenda the sensitive issue of endocrine disruptors, and specifically the setting of final criteria to identify these substances in the context of the biocidal products regulation. as you will remember, during the plenary session on 2 february i made a commitment to present before the summer final scientific criteria for the identification endocrine disruptors. so i can reiterate that the commission has a very firm intention to comply with this obligation and with the judgment of the court. i stand by this commitment and i can only again confirm that the two draft measures are an issue which will be on the college’s agenda on 15 june. the criteria to be presented will be specified objectively and based on scientific evidence. this was not only reiterated by president jean-claude juncker in a letter sent in march to president martin schulz, but also repeated by myself at several public occasions. as honourable members will know, two separate draft measures will be presented simultaneously. as soon as the college endorses these two draft measures, they will be published on the commission’s website so as to ensure maximum transparency. madam president, honourable members, it is our collective responsibility to make informed decisions in the full awareness of all the consequences of our choices. i therefore hope that together we will adopt the best decision on this very important matter. i would like to say that i have kept it very brief. thank you, and i will listen to your debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when i was elected to this parliament in 2009, i really did not expect to end up in this debate that we are having tonight, a debate in which i have to call upon the commission, the guardian of the treaty for the european union, to respect a ruling of the european court of justice and to comply with it. let me quote from the legal opinion from the parliament’s legal service, which is really crystal clear – and be aware that people from the legal service are the most cautious people on planet earth, and when they are so crystal clear, there is really something there. let me quote: ‘there is no doubt that, to date, the commission has not yet taken the measures required under article 266 of the treaty in order to comply with the general court’s judgment.’ that is more than crystal clear. simply, the commission is not complying with the court’s ruling. so when the commissioner starts his statement with: ‘once again we are discussing this topic’, this is not because we as parliament want to continuously discuss this. it is because the commission is refusing to comply with the court’s ruling – the court’s ruling that was crystal clear in saying that no impact assessment of the social and economic consequences was necessary before the independent scientific criteria would be set. in the correspondence between president juncker and president schulz, president juncker was still talking about the necessity to first finalise this impact assessment. commissioner, can you please assure us that the commission is not going to firstly finalise this impact assessment before setting these scientific criteria? european union citizens are losing trust in the european union. so the last thing we need is a european commission that is not even complying with the court’s rulings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. they are in cans, plastic bottles, cosmetics, receipts, and sprayed fruits and vegetables. and it can make you very sick: breast cancer, testicular cancer, fertility problems. you know what? this is just a taste of the diseases that can be caused by it. just this week, doctors sounded the alarm about these substances in medical devices, such as iv drips and respiratory hoses. kids can get sick from this for the rest of their lives. the european commission is refusing to remove these pathogens from the market, thereby deliberately putting the health of 500 million citizens at risk. it is ignoring its own laws and flouting a judgment of the european court of justice. that is a great scandal. my group has today voted in favour of a resolution on endocrine disruptors, but i think that this commission needs a much stronger signal. i think that this commission would not have been here after today either. this committee is in recess. if the commission does not act immediately, i can guarantee that there will be another motion of censure before the summer. and i assume that the greens, the social democrats and all the others who say that public health is important are not looking the other way. i have a clear message for you, commissioner: you're not getting away with this. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the commissioner said: ‘here we are again’, as if we like being here again. the point is that, after several discussions we are having on the issue of endocrine disruptors, commissioner, you continue to say: ‘we are working on an impact assessment’ and every time when we criticise, you say: ‘but the impact assessment…’. it is not that we are against an impact assessment; the point is, for this required action of the commission, an impact assessment is not required. and every time you then replied: ‘but what is wrong, are you against an impact assessment?’. you were always dodging the issue and therefore we asked for another legal opinion. there is a very clear court ruling saying the commission is not complying with its own rules. so we asked again for a legal opinion – my colleague gerbrandy has already quoted from it, so i will take some other quotes just to make it very clear once more: ‘the general court rejected the commission's argument that an impact assessment was required’. it has been rejected! and still the spokesperson of the commission back in december, in response to the general court's ruling, was saying: ‘we are continuing, we are on track for the impact assessment’. in the letter from mr juncker to mr schulz, he was also pointing out that: ‘we are here, working on an impact assessment’. and the conclusion from the legal service – and that is indeed the same conclusion that mr gerbrandy was noting – is that the commission has not yet taken the measures required under the treaty. that is why we are discussing this here again. we want scientific criteria. you are still not delivering on that. that they will be coming in june, it does not matter, you are too late with that, but you are still using the argument that an impact assessment is needed. we think you are ill-advised by your advisers. but it is really crucial to say this: we have to make sure that the commission is following the rules. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i knew this question would be coming. the point now is that we will get a proposal from the commission, and then we will have to have a fight on what scientific criteria will be there. for example potency, which all the scientists say is not a scientific criterion – a good reason not to have it in. will it not be in? that is a fight that is really about the safety of our citizens. that is the fight we still need to have. so, before we make all kind of symbolic changes, let us first make sure that the right criteria are out there. that is the most important concern of the greens, and i hope that we can have that fight together, so that we are sure that the right scientific criteria are there. after that discussion let us see what the commission does.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. the commission believes that prices will rise less if all european households are permanently monitored by hundreds of millions of so-called smart meters. in the commission's view, a household cannot simply consume electricity without the permission of the meter approved by the commission. however, for households the bill is mainly determined by the environmental taxes to pay for those same windmills, in addition to energy taxes to satisfy the endless money hunger of our socialist governments. mr president, i believe in the market. if it can be done more cheaply, consumers and producers will do the same. they don't need europe for that. if your proposals have any reality, why is there no small-scale energy economy? the answer is simple: because it's expensive, because it's complex, but mostly because it's unreliable. and that unreliability of small-scale energy is not mentioned in the report. but the wind doesn't blow constantly, the sun doesn't always shine, and not everyone has a forest in their backyard. what remains is a report in which the commission, in a future perspective of total control, goes far beyond its mandate, because under article 194 of the treaty the eu is not allowed to interfere with a member state's choice of its energy sources or the structure of its own energy supply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most important thing is to give farmers and gardeners the tools to strengthen their competitiveness, first of all by better regulation. it is by giving room for innovation and entrepreneurship and by restoring confidence to farmers that we can reduce costs and meet the challenges facing society. we must also look at how we can improve the position of the farmer in the chain and focus on instruments which enable farmers to manage their risks and price fluctuations. there is an interesting initiative in ireland. a fund has been set up whereby dairy farmers receive money when prices are very low and then pay back when prices are high. let 's face it . it's been holding up for a long time, even though there are signs of recovery. but it is a thorn in my side that the differences between the member states in the eu are widening because everyone is getting their way but now agricultural prices are going to be low. this is why real action is needed at both national and european level. better regulation, a level playing field, but no blank cheques in the farmers' accounts. the netherlands is working on structural measures. specific aspects of this plan need to be commented on, but that is not the point. hurry is good, but there's no point in drawing up plans. the sector itself must be the source of solutions to improve the competitive position of farmers and gardeners.
madam president, yesterday we heard that two thirds of the profits of cooperatives go to the business sector. the multinationals must therefore also be made aware of their responsibilities and contribute to solutions. the money must go to the farmers too. we must also abandon the idea of voluntary production limitation for dairy farming, which was discussed at length yesterday. we just need non-binding agreements. not through a quota system, but through a temporary european reduction of production of five per cent for a period of, say, three to six months, in order to restore the balance between supply and demand. that's how we can get the milk price back on track. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. guilt is still the reason to keep going, and the group is in big trouble. if we do this, we'll kill two birds with one stone. first, major social and economic problems are being solved. secondly, production capacity is being reduced. finally, the marketing of butterfat will have to be supported. this is three billion euros. mr president, i would like to make one final point. i am very sorry that minister van dam, president-in-office of the council, is not here today. he's opening a small business in the netherlands today. i think that shows a lack of respect for farmers and for parliament in this serious, sad situation. and that's what happened last night.
i would ask you to add a resolution to the oral question on japanese whaling and to vote on it at the next plenary session in strasbourg in july. japan is planning to kill, capture, slaughter, whatever you want to call it, almost 4,000 whales in the next few years. japanese ships are currently crossing the southern and pacific oceans. the result is that the world's oceans are being destroyed, and that the world's oceans are being destroyed. this is an animal that can grow up to 70 feet [21 m] long, one of the largest animals on our planet. this species is also threatened with extinction. it is not for nothing that there has been an international ban on whaling since 1986. but japan and a few other countries are ignoring this ban. as a european parliament, are we going to stand by and watch the last whales being hunted down and extinguished, or are we going to do everything in our power to prevent this? i'll take the last one, and i hope you will, too.
over the past few years, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has detected fraud amounting to eur 900 million. that's almost a billion. but anyone who's been walking around here for more than three days knows that you have to multiply that by seven, like the number of refugees or the depth of the greek crisis. that's a lot of money, and way too much money. and it's the same countries that are screwing up every time. it's almost starting to look like the eurovision song contest! i ask the commissioner to return this money to the people to whom it belongs, and those are the taxpayers of the net contributor countries. it cannot be that these people work hard, pay a lot of taxes and billions are wasted every year on fraud.
- i'm the reporter. we always talk about problems here, but one of the bigger causes of problems is often politics itself. there are huge opportunities and farmers are eager to exploit them. it's our job to give them the space to take those opportunities. that is the subject of my report. i am grateful to you, my colleagues in the committee on agriculture, for the hard work you have also put into making the report better. climate change, declining biodiversity, scarcity of natural resources such as water and fertile agricultural land and growing resistance to antibiotics: the world around us is changing, with its challenges. this calls for new solutions. agriculture and horticulture can meet that challenge. through knowledge and innovation, we can feed the world's growing population with ever better food, while improving environmental impacts and animal welfare. i'm proud of that. farming and horticulture are still too often seen as old-fashioned. nothing could be further from the truth. our tractors run on gps, drones monitor our crops, waste streams like manure can be converted into valuable products for fertilizer or energy, and so on. i see it as my duty to help the farmers to get rid of a bad image. the sector is able to feed the world, to preserve the environment and to take good care of the animals. this can only happen if we give farmers and gardeners the space to innovate. this is the main message of my report: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of agricultural products. the potential of the sector is far from being fully exploited. too often, unthinking regulations get in the way. farmers and gardeners can do much more than they are allowed to do now. it is up to us to give the farmers that space and not to be led by groups which have made the blackmailing of the farmer and the gardener a right of existence. no one knows his business better than the farmers or the gardeners themselves. so let them help us think about how we can achieve the desired goals. we need to give them the confidence and the space to apply new ideas and innovations. farmers and gardeners should not rely on a checklist of measures that seem to have been devised from behind a desk, but on the actual contribution to people, animals and the environment. too many rules we make today are outdated tomorrow. so make sure that there is room for new applications, for example by granting pilot status to projects. agriculture has the potential to contribute to the economy of tomorrow by closing cycles, making smart use of the power of nature and connecting to the digital economy. so we can control pests naturally through insects, track our products to the plate, give consumers a better understanding of farming practices, but also capture co2 in the soil. my message to the european commission and the european agriculture ministers is clear. the agriculture of tomorrow has arrived, but we are still too often idle. it is not only the politicians who must take the lead, but also the industry. my report offers more than enough possibilities. tomorrow i hope all my colleagues will support me in my explicit call to put the farmer at the centre of the agricultural policy of tomorrow. give farmers and gardeners the confidence and the space and use their expertise to bring out the best in our farmers.
first of all, i would like to thank mr bayet and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this piece, because it is not a simple subject. we have votes later this week on the panama papers, on the proposal to set up a new committee. it has once again become clear how urgently we need to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance on a global scale. many speakers have said: the oecd has done very good work in this respect with the beps project. i therefore wholeheartedly support all the recommendations made in it. unfortunately, this report goes a little further and there is a bit of gold-plating on the part of parliament. i have two objections to this. firstly, i think that we may be disturbing the global level playing field in this way. so we could indeed turn "anti-beps" into "anti-business". that can't be the point. and it is also true that when we were in washington with the taxe 2 committee, we were quite indignant to hear that the ink of the negotiations had not yet dried or that europe was going to go back to gold-plating and even to put a spade on top of it. that is outrageous. why would you negotiate with each other if one of the partners immediately afterwards does something else? so, full support for the whole oecd package as it stands, but no further. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i think your group has done a good job with that inquiry. we have indeed had to establish that there are states within the united states which have their own policy on this. i can only repeat that we are of course keen to do everything possible to ensure that tax evasion and avoidance by multinationals, but also by wealthy individuals and sometimes even smes, is tackled. i would just like to reiterate my plea that we must do this together on a global scale and that the oecd is the most appropriate platform for this.
i think that if i look back, maybe ten years, i can see that things have changed. ten years ago i became a member of the dutch parliament and started the debate on tax avoidance, which i had little chance of doing in the dutch parliament, let alone international agreements. they're coming in now. well , i 've got what it takes . a financial crisis, scandals like the panama papers and luxleaks. but these international agreements are coming into view, and that may be a little optimistic. they're also getting more and more resonance, because this is not about taxing corporations, but about basic justice equal monks, equal caps. every company, every person should pay taxes, and people want that basic justice enforced. this requires international agreements, which a single country cannot do alone. i am also pleased with the european commission's proposal, and i congratulate mr moscovici on going beyond the agreements as they were set out by the oecd. i am also glad that there is a report in the european parliament which shows that political differences can be bridged and that improvements can be made. where there's a will, there's a way. the european parliament can also set a good example for the countries which are currently in difficulty. this started with the german finance minister schäuble proposing to halve the package and implement only the oecd proposals. ireland and the united kingdom also have difficulties with the proposals on disparity through hybrid structures, the switchover clause or the cfc. and we cannot have this resistance if we want to make change. i would ask the commission to report in detail on the discussions that have taken place in the council and on the attitude of the countries. transparency is extremely important, not just about companies paying or not paying taxes, but also about how countries are behaving. let me hope that this is also a turning point for the netherlands, that the dutch presidency shows that it is breaking with the past.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, for the cheerful and constructive but also tenacious way in which he has guided us as a negotiating team through these difficult, difficult discussions. these have enormous implications not only for the financial markets themselves but also for all users, all european consumers and all the businesses that are affected. because we are dealing with the difficulty of finding the right balance. the commission is of course well aware of the ambition of the capital markets union. we want more jobs, we want more economic growth. we all support that wholeheartedly. the financial sector must also make a major contribution to this by making financing easier and by ensuring that the money needed as a lubricant also flows. we are also, of course, dealing with the commission's better regulation agenda of commissioner timmermans. that is very difficult in a complex file like mifid/mifir, which is incredibly technical. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. how do you balance those interests? we have seen that this is a struggle, that it has not been easy and that this has also caused delays. we understand that. it is more important to have good, workable regulations than to have them drawn up quickly. we also felt that the risks of disrupting markets were too great, so we fully support this delay. but that does not mean that we should not use the deferral - as mr dodds has just said - to make the rules really better and more workable. there are also still issues around - i'll just mention one - a definition of research. what is research? that is the essence of this regulation, it is not just a detail. so we're going to have to find good solutions to that to get as much clarity as possible. clearness on those parts of the legislation which are essential. because we're not getting anywhere with giving people all this unnecessary information. it should be relevant information, not information about transactions that may never happen, but information that is relevant to investment decisions. to quote einstein again: not everything you can measure is valuable, and not everything that is valuable can be measured. we will always have to use common sense in this. it is also good that there is constant contact with consumer protection organisations, but also with the financial sector itself, to ensure that we finally get workable regulation that benefits consumers and investors, and that does not have to be too much for the sector because it creates too much administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the appointment of remantas sadzius, a lithuanian pro-eu social democrat, as a member of the european court of auditors. the european union has no shortage of politicians who always think positively about all spending: the european commission as a whole, the european parliament, the european council, all the more than 50 agencies, the parliaments of almost all the member states. there is no need to add another member of the court of auditors.
we are still in a state of war with the turkey deal and today we are talking about a new deal, a deal with african countries. a new deal where the european commission works with member states to prevent deaths at sea and to regulate migration. the great mistake we made with turkey is repeating itself. the problem with weaving is that we don't say, "africa, african countries, we see your problems. how can we help you?" but we say: "we, we in europe, we have screaming populists, and that's why we want to stop migration". everything seems to be aimed at deterring refugees rather than helping them. and then, when we look at the figures, i wonder if your proposals are actually achieving their purpose. this year, more people have died in the same period than a year ago. how could you? and why should your proposals solve this? there have been no more migrants who made the crossing, but there have been more who have paid with their lives. is there simply something wrong with the way we offer a helping hand at sea? one important point you make is that poverty is the reason many africans come to europe. and you are starting - and i'm glad to hear it - the debate on legal immigration. we are happy to think about that, but at the same time you are breaking a foundation of development cooperation. the purpose of development money is poverty alleviation. that is also stated in our treaty of lisbon. but what does our surprise outline? the commission wants to use this money to keep people there, to keep the borders closed. mr timmermans, if i may speak to the great social democrat schaeffer: no one can eat from keeping borders closed. i wonder how your colleague mimica actually sees this? or the ministers for european development cooperation? or the members of the oecd development assistance committee? you're taking money from the poorest of the poor to pay customs. mr. vice president, two quotes from you: "the mdgs showed us that lack of development of some countries is a threat to all, but so is unsustainable development on a global scale. this is the challenge that today we commit to overcome together". these were your words when you introduced the sustainable development goals. you also said: "in countries like ours there is no excuse for meeting the 0.7 gdp" for development aid. that's true, but you forget that now and you're using the money to fortify fortress europe instead of fighting inequality in the world.
for the enf group on top of buckets of development money, billions of euros are about to disappear into africa, into the hands of corrupt leaders and organizations like boko haram, al qaeda and the islamic state. after erdogan's turkey, brussels is now proposing to put the fate of our country in the hands of corrupt countries such as nigeria, libya, ethiopia, niger and senegal. the european union must be able to take action to combat the refugee crisis by means of a wave of money. the aim is not to stop the flow of immigration, quite the contrary. while keeping the borders wide open, you propose creating even more legal avenues to bring fortune seekers this way. that blue card of yours is more like a golden ticket, with even more and even more unlimited possibilities to get in here. so we're gonna pay a lot of money for more immigration, but you're calling it legal instead of illegal. totally weird! there's only one set of measures that will work. a package that can only be proposed and implemented by courageous sovereign nation states. a package to freedom. a package from the people. a package of closing borders, de-islamizing and leaving the european union. better today than tomorrow.
thank you to commissioner avramopoulos for his presentation today. we have spent a lot of time recently on backlog maintenance and resolving problems of the past in the area of migration policy. i'm glad we can talk about some more forward-looking plans today. the first point we have already discussed this afternoon is to make agreements with african countries, trade conditions, linking investment to cooperation in areas such as the return of illegal migrants and border control. mr avromoupoulos rightly pointed out that integration and legal labour migration are two crucial components of a holistic approach to migration. on the second aspect, i have two brief questions. first of all, we know the blue card system isn't popular. in 2014, the system was used 13000 times, of which 12000 times by germany. what i miss about this proposal is: what is there to make it more attractive to the other 27 countries? on the one hand, you propose that we should make these countries compulsory to participate in this system, even though the basic problems of the blue card may not yet have been fully resolved. my second question relates to the need for social and economic development in africa. it is precisely highly skilled migrant workers who are important for rebuilding society on the ground. how do you take this into account in this proposal?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to focus today on the extreme violence against human rights defenders, lgbt activists, journalists, bloggers and religious minorities. too many innocent victims have been killed and the debate today is long overdue. the pace of outrageous incidents still increases, and as recently as today, a hindu priest was hacked to death. our thoughts go out to the victims and their families and loved ones. it is widely believed that violent islamist terror militia are behind these despicable acts, and clearly liberal voices and religious minorities are the targets. it is important that the government does all it can to prevent more horrendous bloodshed and, while we see that the authorities have launched new actions against terrorist groups, concerns remain that more could have been done to protect people and also that point blank killings of suspects are not a proportionate and adequate response – and not as just or as impactful as a fair trial to bring people to justice. given the long list of many people killed by islamist militia since 2013, it is surprising, and actually quite disappointing, that eu leadership has not been stronger and that we have not been more vocal. you rightfully pointed out the important ties and the relations we have in the form of trade and development. we leveraged it before when factories collapsed and we should leverage it again, with stronger words offering assistance to tackle terrorism, but in an appropriate manner. so i wanted to ask you, minister, why we have not seen more statements, or could you share more about the actual steps that eu leaders and the external action service and high representative mogherini have taken in reaching out to the bangladeshi authorities? what will be the real consequences if there is a lack of adequate response to these outrageous murders? what is happening on the part of the eu member states delegations on the ground in bangladesh?
suppose you were a christian in bangladesh right now or part of another religious minority group in the country, you would fear for your life more and more, because the attacks by extremist muslims on christians and other religious minorities have been increasing in bangladesh in recent months. the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of religion thus results in religious persecution. a christian spokesman in bangladesh who i spoke to today made a clear statement. i quote: "officially, there is room for christians to profess their faith. but in practice there is a growing pattern of persecution and discrimination and the rights of minorities are not respected. the media also plays a role and regularly misrepresents christians". end of quote. in passing, the government denies the evident presence and activities of salafist terrorist organizations such as al qaeda and is on its own territory. last year the eu spent €800 000 on human rights projects in bangladesh. my question is: did some of the money also benefit the precarious position of religious minorities? perhaps the council, in the person of minister koenders, can shed some light on this.
it is true that socioeconomic rights are also part of human rights. that's what i wanted to focus on. it is now three years since the rana plaza disaster and in fact we have to say that not much has changed, whereas there would be so much profit to be made if we allowed unions to enforce improvements themselves. but the government won't cooperate. bangladesh's labour laws have high legal thresholds that make it easy for employers to intimidate, fire and even - we know this - abuse workers. in addition, the export production zones are not covered by the existing labour law. that should change, because ensuring a decent life for the men and women who make our clothes should be worth something to us. trade unions are an important key to this.
for the ecr group paragraph 12 of the european parliament's resolution on the philippines rightly expresses our grave concern about the tensions in the south china sea. because these tensions affect european interests as much as philippine ones, and in three ways. firstly, the security of a trade route which is of vital importance to the eu is directly at stake. secondly, our transatlantic partnership as a geopolitical factor is at stake. and thirdly, the eu is equally at risk from the normative international legal order. the european parliament resolution is also clear on the bottlenecks of the conflict situation in the south china sea. the refusal of beijing to accept international arbitration and its policy of dealing with facts, including military facts on the ground, is a direct challenge to beijing. fortunately, the resolution does not leave this point unaddressed. the european union is calling for an effective common code of conduct for the south china sea. indeed, brussels and washington should pick up the 2002 thread again, which will certainly be an incentive for a smooth eu-philippine cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i was a member of the committee of inquiry into the cia renditions programme and the flight stats about 10 years ago now. you might ask why we are still discussing this after 10 years. why are we still repeating the same statements? but i can tell you that i will never tire of this until justice is done. we can all talk about whether the legal framework was in place at the time or whether it is a matter of national sovereignty, but actually i get the feeling that the council and the member states are hiding behind legalistic arguments. if it is true, as minister koenders says, that national security is a purely national matter then i would like to understand why it was that the member state governments back in, i believe, october 2001 collectively decided to allow cia flights in european airspace. they collectively decided that, but now they are hiding behind the argument that it is a national matter. when it is about accountability and about responsibility, all of a sudden it is a national matter. no, i think that if the governments at the time had the courage to take that decision collectively, then they should now be accountable and responsible collectively as well, and not hide behind these arguments. then you say, minister koenders, but we have the judiciary and we have a solid judicial framework. well, i actually observed that member state governments of different colours (irrespective of the colour, i might say) have gone out of their way to frustrate judicial investigations and prosecutions. they have tried everything in their power to stop those processes. you mentioned the word ‘shame’. i very much agree with you. it is an absolute shame that 10 years after the first report in the european parliament we are still talking about this and, as dick marty said at the time, it is like talking to a rubber wall. it is as if we are not heard. but we will keep discussing this until justice is done. no impunity in the european union, because that, minister koenders, that is shameful.
it is not the first time that we have had this item on the agenda. we have repeatedly expressed our disgust at the cia's torture practices. horrible, degrading practices such as waterboarding, sleep deprivation or rectal food ingestion have no place in a rule of law in the 21st century. terrorism must be fought without reducing ourselves to terror. i agree with the colleagues who say that we still do not have all the information on what has happened. i agree with those colleagues that this is regrettable and i would very much like to be able to wave a magic wand here in the european parliament and get all the information on the table. but unfortunately, that's not how it works in practice. we will have to be realistic and dare to look at our own competences, as is also confirmed by the rather disappointing results of the committee we have set up here in parliament over the last two years. this story needs to be followed up in national parliaments, national courts and european courts. i have one more question to put to the liberal group. there has just been a lot of talk about the laxity of the institutions and the laxity of the member states. we have a resolution here tomorrow which regrets that during the last mandate only one mission was organised by the european parliament. then i ask myself the question: how is it that of all the 70 members of the liberal group, no one was willing to take the trouble to actually participate in that mission?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european space programme. when i go to strasbourg and i pack my suitcase, i first check my weather app to see what clothes i should bring. we're all sitting here all day looking at our mobile devices, at our phones, at the internet. you can't miss it all anymore. did you fly here? then you needed it for air traffic safety. when you're in a car, you're used to your navigation system. in short, space applications are all around us in our daily lives. we are increasingly dependent on the vast amounts of data that satellites provide us, whether for the public or for navigation or for earth observation. these are all things that can make our daily lives ever easier and that more and more companies are taking advantage of. i would like to make one appeal to commissioner bieńkowska on the space strategy: we need to give even more publicity to the flagship programmes we have, both galileo and certainly copernicus. we need to involve more private companies, because those private entrepreneurs can create the jobs and growth that we so badly need. the government can't do that, the entrepreneurs have to. but they need to know that that data is freely available, and that they can use it to make really cool products. commissioner bieńkowska is on the right track, as i have heard now and also last week at the space conference under the dutch presidency. i would like to contribute to the discussion of a progressive space strategy with a lot of private sector influence.
madam president, vice-president katainen, last week there was a pretty self-congratulatory press statement by the commission on how successful the juncker plan is, but i think we really first need to have a good couple of questions answered before we can be so satisfied with it. first of all, efsi should be additional; it should fund projects where no money would otherwise go. can you explain the widening of motorways in germany and netherlands? where is the additionality there? secondly, this one should also be for the countries mostly affected by the crisis. how can you explain that greece only has one project on infrastructure and one sme project? that is really one of the regions most affected by the crisis, yet it is not benefiting from efsi at all. that is also a genuine problem. thirdly, this should be a transition of the economy. bank watch concluded that, without efsi, the eib is subsidising 25% of the projects related to climate. with efsi it is 27%. it seems like business as usual. these things need to be answered properly before we make self-congratulatory statements on what a big success this plan is.
when the banking crisis broke out in 2008, the member states of the european union were no longer able to respond adequately because of the euro. economic growth collapsed, unemployment skyrocketed and national debts doubled. and nothing has helped since: today even interest rates are negative, so it is convenient to retire first and then to work, because with a negative interest rate nothing returns at all. but president juncker saw a bright spot, a hundred billion eu investment fund that would put things right and at the same time make it clear that the member states are no longer in charge. does it help? no, unemployment is still sky-high and growth is still among the lowest in the world. so i ask the fundamental question: why does brussels prefer a united, poor eu to free, sovereign and prosperous european countries?
i was a rapporteur on the regional development committee for the efsi. we have welcomed the efsi under three conditions. the first is additionality, and also the contribution to territorial cohesion in the eu. we have very little information at your first briefing. it is not just about investment per se, but also about reducing imbalances in europe. after the crisis, after the efsi, three years from now, we must not have the richer regions strengthened and the distance with other poorer regions increased. when are you going to come up with a real report? that's very important. the second point is the synergy between the funds. in this connection, you propose to amend the general regulation on the structural and investment funds. we asked for that, too. and thirdly, the role of the regions in the investment platforms. that's a good catch. this has allowed you to take advantage of opportunities close to people, businesses and governments. it is a direct way of reaching small and mediumsized enterprises and family businesses. and everywhere we have the same need for longer-term guarantees to foster innovation. you don't do that for one or two years, like the banks want you to do now. so that in itself is a positive approach. but when are you going to come up with your real report? (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. the objective of the efsi - and i am also looking at the vice-president of the commission - is growth and jobs. the beauty of this project is that by guaranteeing it, it now also opens up the possibility of new jobs, whether or not they are the result of developments in the digital world. we need to set up the training for our people properly. we should not look at the statistics day by day, but look at how we can achieve sustainable development, energy transition, and so on, in the slightly longer term. there is a need for that. think about industry 4.0. that will create jobs.
the european commission considers the efsi to be a success. in my country too, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. investments of around eur 40 million will then receive a return of perhaps eur 330 million via a leverage effect. that sounds great, but let's get down to business. last week my party held a big meeting with businessmen and i asked them in particular if they were involved in this kind of investment project. and they all said, basically, no, we don't, because it's a lot of effort that we have to put in to apply and you don't know what the outcome is. it's too much bureaucracy and too complicated. i would like to say this to the commissioner in his evaluation: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work.
in writing. ‒ the sp is of course in favour of a firm approach to tax avoidance, but does not think the proposed compromise is firm enough. the proposal does not address the core of the problem: the transparency is far from complete and the rules are far from strict enough.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when i saw the title of today’s debate i was really optimistic. i thought this is wonderful; finally we are going to talk about something that we have been calling for a long time: data sharing. this is long overdue because there have been so many examples of terrorist attacks where we found out after the attacks that the information was available, but it had not been shared. but if i look more closely at what is on the table today, i am actually very disappointed because i get the impression that this is not about more information sharing, this is about collecting more personal data. there is a big difference between mandatory information sharing of vital information and leaving it to the member states’ discretion whether or not they will share information. we can have a communication about interoperability, but that is the technical side of things. if the political will is still not there to share vital information, not between two friendly eu member states, but throughout the european union, then we are not making any progress here, and then this is all just technical. i get the feeling that the political will is still not there. then, i also wonder what are we actually talking about? i am very curious what will be in this roadmap and it would have been very practical for this debate if we had had the text of the roadmap beforehand. now maybe i have overlooked it, but it would have been very good to have the text beforehand, because now we do not know what we are actually talking about it. is this about connecting databases? is this about collecting more data? is it only about travel data as some people seem to assume? why not? other police information that is probably more useful actually for fighting terrorism? who is going to provide oversight, not only on the data protection issues, but also in terms of effectiveness? so actually i have lost my optimism on seeing the title. i am a bit more sceptical after this debate, but maybe when i see the road map, which apparently will be adopted on friday, i will be optimistic again.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this morning the funerals were held of the police officers killed in yesterday’s terrorist attack in istanbul. another attack took place in midyat today. i strongly condemn these attacks and i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. no justification can be given for these horrendous attacks, but investments must be made in finding a just and durable solution to the kurdish question. this is very much in the interest of both turkey and its citizens who live in the south-east of the country. here in parliament we are concerned about the decision of the turkish parliament to lift the immunity of one quarter of its members, a move clearly targeted against the opposition party hdp. at such a critical moment, taking away the political representation of many people living in the south-east of turkey is a wrong move, not because we believe politicians should be immune to prosecution, not because we do not understand that turkey faces a serious threat from terrorism, but because it is against all democratic principles to silence opponents simply for their political views, no matter how much you dislike them or disagree with them. if not even in the democratically elected parliament, can there be any place left where opposing political views are tolerated? mistakes have been made on all sides. many who saw pictures of hdp deputies attending funerals of pkk terrorists were hurt, and many others were hurt when they saw that curfews did not cause any outcry from the west of the country, and these grievances are understandable, but the only way to overcome this divide is by looking forward. a parliament in exile is not the solution to anything, and nor are military operations. moreover, the current events could also have a negative effect on eu/turkey relations. seeing court cases in the coming weeks whereby democratically elected members of parliament are disappearing behind bars, based on a highly controversial turkish anti-terrorism legislation, will certainly jeopardise visa-free travel to the eu for turkish citizens. we will not accept that journalists, academics and members of parliament are thrown into jail for using their right of freedom of expression. the eu should stand ready to contribute positively to the restart of a peace process, but this process must start in turkey. the house of people’s representatives would be a logical place for that. therefore, i would like to urge all turkish political parties to come together to make a clear stand against terrorism, and to make a serious attempt to put an end to this bloodshed for the sake of all turkish citizens.
mr president, we have seen an unacceptable amount of compromise on the part of the commission and the member states on the very values the eu is built on. they have been weakened and traded so that turkey will protect our borders – or so, it seems, is the hope. visa liberalisation is one element of what the eu should deliver, if and when turkey meets the 72 criteria it has itself agreed with europe in 2013. it is in the abuse of anti-terror legislation that the knot gets tied. yes, terror must be fought and turkish parliamentarians should distance themselves from the use of violence. but they also have to have a chance to represent their voters democratically. the lifting en masse of the immunity of parliamentarians clearly does not allow for due process, and it also disproportionately impacts hdp members. commissioner, you spoke of the rule of law as being key. i call on you to ensure that we, the eu, act according to international law and ensure that turkey does the same. we cannot afford further compromise: not in the context of the deal on migration; not in the context of the need for reforming anti-terror legislation; and not because the eu needs to remain credible if it wants to lead in the world at all.
we are talking about trade defence instruments and that cannot be done without also talking about the chinese steel dump. china is dumping its surpluses on the european market. and that threatens to become even easier when that country is given the status of a market economy. once china gets that status, whether accelerated or not, it will be necessary to have an effective instrument. the levy on chinese steel is currently 17 percent, while the united states introduced a 522 percent levy in may. does the commission take account of the interests of steel producers and workers? or does she really just want to keep the steel industry and china happy with such a low tax? finally, i would urge minister koenders to make a real effort in brussels and in the netherlands to promote the manufacturing industry. the manufacturing industry is a major contributor to the economy and a source of employment, but european companies, such as the steel industry, are also required to adhere to strict environmental standards. we do not want to lose that advantage to highly polluting companies.
mr president, the eu needs effective, flexible and meaningful measures to tackle unfair trade practices such as subsidies and dumping, and it is unacceptable to note that right at the moment when we need it most, with the imminent expiry of a key provision of china’s wto accession protocol later this year – and right when overcapacity on the global market is hurting our already struggling industries, for example the steel industry – we are paying the price for paralysis and disagreement in council. the council has no time to lose in finding agreement on trade defence instruments – while avoiding protectionism, because that is no way to strengthen open economies and fair trade. equally, we must be aware that the best way to address breaches of fair-trade rules by others is for us to lead by example. eu measures must be wto compliant. let us also be well aware of the other side of the coin. while they may not be so vocal, the eu also has many companies that import, also providing jobs for people. our economies and other economies are globally interdependent and retaliatory measures can hurt. of course, other factors such as low oil prices impact many, including the steel industry. it is an illusion for anyone to think that trade defence instruments alone can save one industry or another. so our group, the liberal group, is seeking an overall balanced trade defence instruments package to ensure fair trade globally, not only vis-à-vis china, although it is an important player here. we need the right measures suitable for an interdependent global economy, flexible and effective and wto compliant.
there is a great deal of uncertainty about what we are going to see in the next six months as regards china's place in world trade. as you can see, there is a lot of anxiety in this room. of course, we assume that china will not be granted market economy status, but article 15a (2) of the accession treaty will lapse anyway. i would therefore urge the council and the commission to come forward with a proposal which also guarantees that the eu can continue to use the analogue country method in the future to determine dumping from countries and sectors where there are clearly no market economy conditions. we need that method to continue to protect our industry effectively against unfair competition.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, there are legitimate concerns about japan's decision to resume whaling, despite the decision of the international court of justice. japan plans to catch about 4,000 whales over 12 years, and the recent killing of 541 whales, including 207 pregnant females, off australia seems completely irresponsible. the scientific justification given by japan is not sound, and is similar to the arguments in favour of laboratory animal testing, which are for the most part completely useless. the proposals of our parliament to put pressure on japan, or even to bring legal proceedings against it, are interesting, but they are vague and do not suggest any concrete means of pressure. but there are ways, particularly in the fisheries agreements with developing countries. japan often has fisheries agreements with the same countries as the european union. could not the resumption of whaling be an argument to be made in the negotiations? i'm asking the question. finally, japan is not the only threat to the survival of whales, as plastic waste is poisoning them and leading to massive strandings, especially on european coasts. and it is not plastic bags that kill them, but the building blocks of agricultural greenhouses used in the netherlands and spain. it is therefore important to sweep up the mess outside our door, also by dealing with this problem which affects us directly.
today is world oceans day. people worldwide are concerned about the survival of whales. many are angry at japan, for despite a ban, japan has again killed over 300 whales in recent months, including 200 pregnant ones. the largest animals on our planet are hunted with large-bore weapons. after a long chase, the exhausted animals are shot with explosive harpoons that pierce deep into the flesh. the heavily wounded animals are tackled on board and shot to death. this ordeal often lasts several hours. there is no justification for such a slaughter. europe can put an end to this suffering by applying pressure to japan through its trade policy. if we really want to do something about whaling, we will not talk about a trade agreement as long as japan continues this cruel and irresponsible illegal whaling. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think this is a very important discussion, a timely moment and one that our group very much supports. the fact that we are discussing this at a time when many in the eu are actually too inward-focused allows us to look outward again and see not only threats from the outside world but, frankly, the many opportunities. one of the strengths of the european union is of course our soft power. i think economic diplomacy would be one way to also create a better relevance and clear picture for people of why we have trade and other economic policies and what it can mean concretely. concretely, that is, for small and medium-sized enterprises and concretely in an outreach that should be a two-way street: on the one hand, we should have our diplomats and our representatives looking for opportunities in third countries, but we should also be a welcome desk providing information and bringing knowledge back to the european union. i think we should also strive to be less competing with one another globally and to act more as an eu together. let me give you an example. recently i was in boston, massachusetts, as the vice-president of the us delegation of this house, where there are incubators bringing life science companies from the eu to relevant partners in the us. you see a german hub, a dutch hub and a swedish hub operating within metres of each other. why not join forces, show what europe has to offer, and bring the knowledge and the entrepreneurship, the investment and other relevant actors back in touch with actors in the eu? the same could be said for silicon valley. i think there are many opportunities to avoid duplication – as you said, commissioner – but also to connect the dots in a changing world, involve technology and it in a smart way, and involve the private sector also in our foreign policy goals, which includes them playing a role in advancing human rights, corporate social responsibility and basically streamlining our efforts on the global stage.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues from itre and mrs werner in particular for putting this item on the agenda for the plenary today. we are indeed talking about one of the most innovative sectors of european industry 4.0. but we must recognize that blaming china alone does not help. europe is too slow. everything the commissioner has said is true, but the world of competition is much tougher than the european commission apparently realizes. he mentioned shift2rail and the tenders in december 2015. before that, we had to wait two years for new management at shift2rail, and that's too long. another point is the trade agreements. it's not just about china, it's about japan. these negotiations are taking too long to keep the european railway sector in the picture. you know that the chinese competition opened an office in budapest last week. we all know what's gonna happen. so the central message is: european commission, be faster and more accurate.
author. vietnam is an important partner for the eu in a crucial region. we have here, a few months ago, welcomed the partnership and cooperation agreement by a large majority. the negotiations for the free trade agreement have been completed and we made a very constructive visit to vietnam with the asean delegation some time ago. so relations between the eu and vietnam are intense and a good discussion of fundamental freedoms in vietnam should be a crucial part of those relations. i would like to refer in particular to a number of subjects which are rightly endorsed in this resolution which we are voting on today: repression, intimidation and persecution of blogger activists, repression of religious minorities and lack of freedom of press and freedom of expression. it is up to the eu, the european external action service and the delegation in hanoi - which is already doing very good work in this area - to use all the possibilities we have under the partnership and cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement to force positive change in vietnam.
the resolution on vietnam calls in paragraph 10 for the authorities to put an end to religious persecution. i wholeheartedly support this call. the persecution of christians in vietnam is particularly severe for ethnic minorities in the central highlands and the north. the distribution of bibles and christian literature in their language is forbidden, as is the holding of worship services. the fate of dozens of christians from these ethnic minorities is even more grim, serving long prison sentences under harsh conditions on very dubious charges. outright sinister forms of religious persecution are taking place in vietnam in the event of staged accidents. that was the case last month with vietnamese pastor nam and three fellow christians. nam, 56, was hit by an army truck and died at the scene. commission, the seriousness of religious persecution in vietnam is evident. let your intervention with the vietnamese authorities be equally evident and urgent!
the eu is the second largest funder of the palestinian authority, an institution of jew-haters and terrorists. the european parliament is inviting holocaust denier and terrorist fanatic abbas to the summit. this man is giving fixed monthly salaries to perpetrators of terror against jews. jewish blood is on his hands and mr schulz will be shaking them warmly tomorrow. the eu is funding palestinian radicalisation. palestinian children are taught to hate jews and glorify terror, and the language of the palestinian authority is the language of violence. it is a disgrace and the eu has a welcoming culture. mosques are being filled like barracks with weapons of war. hundreds, if not thousands of terrorists are preparing to attack here. i say to this committee: stop islamization, stop sending money to abbas and erdogan, close the national borders.
no one wakes up one day as a radical salafist leaving his home and family behind and heading to the battlefield in syria to join isis. there's a process to that. radicalisation is happening in our neighbourhoods. that means that the signaling and the addressing of it has to start at that very local level, with the neighbors, the teachers, the parents, the imams and the youth workers. not every muslim who is poor and feels discriminated against becomes a jihadist or a terrorist. the causes of radicalisation are not only socioeconomic. radicalisation is also a religious derailment and that fact is too often denied in this parliament. and why is it a european problem and should we in the european parliament also pay attention to it? in a european union without internal borders, radicalisation in the hague, molenbeek or the suburbs of paris is a problem for all of us, and with over 4 000 european jihadists, the recent terrorist attacks in paris and brussels make it clear that we have a serious problem. it is very important that all member states dealing with radicalised young people actually have a common strategy and implement it. the european union must not allow european governments to be free to tackle radicalisation effectively. at present, european countries are not being called upon to assume this responsibility. the same applies to the exchange of information and intelligence between national security services. there are many databases set up to ensure that a person who is considered a danger to society by one country cannot simply travel to another member state where he is not in a database. but unfortunately these means are still underused and it is proving far too easy for radicalised young people, but also for hate preachers, for example, to travel back and forth between european countries. it is therefore in our common interest that each european country has its own deradicalization programme in place. and let me say this: blind blocking of websites without judicial intervention is therefore, in my view, a sham measure which does represent a serious restriction of our freedom. we must not go in that direction and also in the fight against terrorism: let's be frugal with our freedom.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the european commission and of course commissioner karmenu vella who is responsible for the file. in the college? i would like to thank the rapporteur, shadow rapporteur and the committee on fisheries for all the hard work they have done to enable agreement to be reached for the multiannual plan for the management of the stock of cod, herring and sprout and fisheries in the baltic sea. the baltic plan is the first of its kind; a landmark. it is the first of a new generation of multi-annual plans. these are important tools for the further implementation of our reformed common fisheries policy and for implementing its most ambitious element, the obligation to end wasteful discarding of fish and land all catches. in addition, these multiannual plans provide an important framework for the development of a more decentralized way of fisheries management, which what we called regionalisation. with regionalisation in mind, i would also like to take the opportunity to needed to state formally our declaration in relation to regional cooperation. when proposing and adopting delegated acts under their regionalisation provisions of this plan, the commissioner will comply with the framework set out in the basic regulation, in particular article 18, and the practice established under the basic regulation implementing the regionalisation process will continue as it has since 2014. the baltic plan is the culmination of a process that has involved many players working together to reach consensus across many interests of involved parties. this process has included the baltic fishing industry and the fishery ministers of concerned countries as well as the legislators of course, and their interests. the outcome is a balanced regulation that has incorporated the key concerns raised throughout the process. the agreement of both legislators has provided the blueprint for this new generation of multi-annual plans. this is very important for other marine regions for which the development of these plans will allow for sustainable long-term management. i will look forward to cooperating with you as we present the next set of proposals for further fisheries management plans for your careful consideration.
i think that no one can be happy about this multiannual plan for the baltic sea because this plan does not protect the fishermen and this plan does not protect the fish. this plan raises the maximum sustainable yield, the point at which waters are fished to their maximum. and maximum sustainable yield is nothing but policy greed. pillage as much of the available fish stock as possible. and we're not talking about irons here, we're talking about living things that can feel pain and fear. and even the maximum catch from the sea is not enough. this plan goes one step further: increasing the maximum sustainable yield, and for that i have only one word: overfishing. and so this baltic sea plan weakens the whole common fisheries policy. and that also opens the door to other waters, like the north sea, to continue to be structurally depleted. many of you have joined me in opposing this plan for overfishing. and that's why i'm surprised you're defending this plan today. i can't do that anyway. the rapporteur has invited us to have a glass of champagne tomorrow and i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: can you raise your glass tomorrow with your head held high? if this is the maximum that europe can achieve, then overfishing will only stop when the seas are really empty, and unfortunately most of us will have to live through that. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
we have finally reached agreement on a fisheries plan for the baltic sea. the draft plan was presented in october 2014, negotiations started in may 2015, and now after a year and a half, we finally have a legislative agreement. it was a long road and the multiannual plan actually became a multiannual plan for this parliament too. i hope that the examination of other multiannual plans, particularly the north sea plan, will now be able to proceed much more rapidly. the framework is clear: we have chosen to set limits within which member states may set fishing quotas. these bandwidths are particularly needed for the north sea, where we have a lot of mixed fisheries. and with those bandwidths, we can reach maximum sustainable yield and all fish stocks can benefit from that, too. that is the objective of the common fisheries policy. finally, i would like to thank mr wałęsa and his team very much. it was a spirited negotiation. but we got along.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner and colleagues, this debate is about creating more clarity for eu-based companies looking to trade with or invest in iran after the lifting of sanctions as a result of the nuclear deal. but ongoing as well as new us-based sanctions for human rights violations or to deter iran’s missile programme – regardless of the validity of those goals, and i think they are valid – have led to uncertainty for european companies. as a result of the extraterritorial impact, an estimated half of interested companies are holding back. the need for financing, insuring and transporting products going to iran can lead to a chain reaction where banks do not trust that their services, even if fully legal in europe, will not be punished in the us or by the us: not only billion-dollar fines, but also new visa requirements that hinder access, or undermine trust in being able to access, the us after doing business with iran. since we requested this debate, secretary kerry has met with eu-based banks and the question is this: has this sufficiently clarified their concerns, according to the commission? and what has the commission or the external action service done to address these concerns with us officials to get more predictability and clarity for european companies? and have you engaged in the underlying problem and addressed it with the iranian authorities – namely the fact that a significant role for the revolutionary guard in the iranian economy hinders the emergence of a truly private sector, and also risks that the benefits after the deal will go to a few and not to the many. does the current situation of uncertainty jeopardise the deal at all? key for our group, and key for the eu to be effective and credible is for us to be able to make our own policies – in tandem with the us when needed, as we successfully did to bring iran back to the negotiating table – but always independently, based on our own assessments and decisions of which foreign policy tools benefit our interests and, most importantly, our values.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start with two energy reports that were published recently. the first one says wind and solar are crushing fossil fuels, and it says that in 2015 energy investments in renewables were twice as much as in fossil fuels. two huge energy bids in mexico and morocco were won by renewable programmes – not because they were renewable, but because they promised the cheapest energy, and that was renewable. the other report says that europe is losing its reputation as a renewable energy leader, and that is a very, very worrying report. last year, investments in renewable energy in europe plummeted by 21%, while spending in the rest of the world boomed. that is what this report is saying and that is extremely worrying. what we are witnessing in the world is a global race for cheap and secure energy, and that is renewable energy. the wonderful side-effect of that global race is that it is also clean. a wonderful side-effect. but the main focus is to get cheap and clean renewable energy. the last thing that we need here is conservatism. we need a much stronger european focus with ambitious, binding targets and i am calling upon the commission, when it is working on its proposals for september, please come with very strong, ambitious, binding targets. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i totally agree with my colleague. i don’t think that nord stream is a very smart project to undertake, but what is even more worrying is that progress towards a true european energy union is being slowed down by our member states. we have 28 energy unions today. we need one energy union – one combined focus on the transition towards cheap, secure and clean energy, and that is the main focus we should have in europe.
23 june 2016 was a historic day. a great day in the history of europe. the liberation of europe has begun. the united kingdom is celebrating. the eu, the evil union, is losing an important member state. it's the beginning of the end of this failed project. this union is playing dirty with the voters. a self-enriching elite is running this union at the expense of the peoples of europe. the british people have decided that sovereignty should be returned to the member states. not just in the uk, but across the eu, voters want their sovereignty back. the process of dismantling this evil union must begin as soon as possible. we must therefore stop further political, economic and financial integration of the eu immediately. the national borders must be restored immediately. the united kingdom is and will be the master of its own money, its own borders and its own laws, and now we demand the release of the other member states: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. and i say to mr juncker: get up there! he failed to contain the united kingdom and he failed to reduce eu regulation as agreed. juncker, step up with the rest of your commission! a new commission must dismantle this evil union in an orderly manner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to make the rapporteur very nervous because i am going to compliment her on the nice cooperation we had. i think you did a fair job as a rapporteur in trying to really get the common vision of this house into the negotiations, so on that matter i want to thank you. you can take that home: the greens thank you for that role. now to make you feel more comfortable we also have of course criticism. we will vote in favour of this legislation because it is an improvement to where we are, but this is really also a question to the people in this house. every time we discuss air quality people are saying we mainly have to improve source policies because that is the most efficient way of cleaning up our air: address the sources. but every time we try to address the sources, there is a huge lobby saying ‘yes, but not our source, the other sources maybe, but not us’, and that was exactly what was at hand here and therefore the result is an improvement to the existing situation, but the snowploughs are exempted, we have replacement engines that stay on very long, even cotton harvesters are exempted... so it is a bit of a swiss cheese as a result. so we fail again to use this moment to really make decent source policies. i think that is something we have to remind ourselves of: in the end the air does not get cleaner if we always exempt the sources. this is an improvement, i want to thank the rapporteur, but we could have done a better job.
i thank the commissioners and especially my colleague, brando benifei, who has written a very good report on an important subject, because in 2015 alone, over 1.2 million people applied for asylum in europe. some were rejected. many others were allowed to stay, but who knows for how long. and all this time, people have been on the margins of society, and no one benefits from that. the refugees, who often have no access to the labour market and therefore no access to society, and the member states, who thus contribute to poor integration, are not. so we really need to work on integration through language learning, education and training, so that refugees can participate in everyday life and also use their new skills when they return to their own country.
the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are steps in the right direction for those millions of young people who are stuck at home because of a lack of employment. it is a crisis that these young people did not cause, but which often leads to a lost generation, the word has been used here before. the eu, as the commissioner has just said, is slowly emerging from the crisis, but brexit is creating new uncertainty about our economic prospects. so it is indeed time that we put pressure through this debate on the space for real investment and growth and jobs, so that we can offer a perspective to countries that are still deeply in debt. the young people of spain, of various eastern european countries and, above all, of greece deserve our support. so there must be a continuing investment in the youth guarantee. but i ask you, commissioner, should we not in general invest more in growth and jobs in europe?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, trade is an increasingly important element of the various eu foreign policy instruments. it is a way to leverage the single market on the global stage, to strengthen the rules-based and values-based system and to make sure that trade rules help stronger standards, considering people and planners. in a world which is rapidly changing, with the economic rise of countries like china or the gulf states that do not share our standards and levels of openness, this is not a luxury, but a necessity. i am glad to see that the commission has ensured values are at the heart of the eu’s trade strategy. clearly, this is what eu citizens expect. the interest in, and the debate about, trade have increased significantly over the past years. it is not without reason that member state governments, as well as parliamentarians, decided to leverage the weight of our entire european economy on the global stage to have the best negotiating position. i certainly hope that these governments, as well as national parliaments, will continue to play an active role because it is too easy to pretend it is ‘brussels’ dreaming up trade policy or ‘brussels’ not publishing documents, while we constantly have to push for member states to make mandate texts available, for example. in addition, there is a huge demand by people to have their voices heard. it is key that the capacity to engage people actively is created. we must do what we can but trade ministers at the national level, as well as parliaments, are perhaps the best positioned to address sector-specific and regional elements of trade. if there are negative impacts to be mitigated, policies must be made nationally. i believe that only when we play each of our roles and when we work together, do we ensure transparency and engagement with a clear view of what is at stake, not only in the eu but globally.
i thank mrs beghin for her report. i appreciate the attention to labour rights, public health and the environment, but i regret that the report is stuck in the blind faith of free trade. how can you think that the world will be a more beautiful and better and more social place if we pursue only economic goals? it is much better for the environment when our products are not being hauled hundreds or even thousands of kilometres. it's better for our communities when local entrepreneurs can make a local living. of course, we live in a global village, and i don't want to deny anyone their cotton, their coffee, their computer. but there is a difference between doing business because it is good for everybody and making business an end in itself, and i miss that insight in this report. finally, the investment court system must not be incompatible with the european legal order. that is also stated in this ini report, and that is good, but it is not enough. i therefore hope that you will support a request to the european court of justice for an opinion on this contradiction.
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to welcome the prime minister and the foreign minister and all those involved in the dutch presidency here for the last time. i think that a special word of appreciation on behalf of colleagues should also go to minister hennis who has spent hours and hours here in the sittings that you could not be in, and that is very much appreciated by this house. i would also like to express our appreciation on behalf of the epp group for your presidency. it is the 12th time and a country that does this for the 12th time does it like an oiled machine. you took over the presidency at a difficult time. you are delivering it, perhaps at an even more difficult time, when i have not yet said anything about the quality of the interim presidency. the fact is, you were president at the time of the biggest migration and refugee crisis since the 1990s. in economic terms, investment in europe is far from its pre-crisis level and the situation at our borders is unstable. we've seen attacks, that's been referred to. the highlights, as far as i am concerned, are the agreement on the border and coast guard which we are voting on this week. i do not dare to call the turkey agreement a highlight, because there are a number of aspects to it which can be questioned. on the other hand, it works. and a situation without a deal with turkey, we don't want to go back to that either. but the point i want to make here is: the turkey deal buys time. but in the meantime, we will remain blackmailed by a country like turkey if we do not get our own affairs in order. this means that further steps are needed in the area of a genuine asylum and migration policy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a highlight: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. highlight for me too: the sharing of national terrorist lists. that's not enough when it comes to sharing information, but it's an important first step. i know that i am missing a lot of colleagues who have worked hard in their fields to reach agreements. i 'd like to name one: iorp 2 for the amateurs and the tech-nuts, also for our country the commission has already made a number of important improvements to the commission proposal. but instead of doing so, your government is pushing that agreement to a chamber of deputies 24 hours before coreper decides on it, and is failing to stress the real benefits of that agreement in the debate with that chamber. i have come to one of the main points of the present malaise in europe: the council and the european parliament take decisions here together on a proposal from the european commission. it is time that council itself took responsibility for this at national level. because taking decisions in brussels, in a collegial way, and then at home saying something different or even distancing oneself from it, that destroys our cooperation. just like the repeated postponement of decisions! it took three months - just this one point, mr president - before you gave us any indication of what the netherlands was going to do after the 'no' vote in the ukraine referendum. and that indication wasn't very concrete either. so there is a lack of clarity. we do not need years of uncertainty in the situation in the united kingdom. i'm closing up, you're going back to national politics. i wonder whether you will remain as strong a supporter of completing the banking union as you were when you were president. i would like to make one wish to you, and that is that under the hague cheese pillar you do not let europe become the first victim of the electoral struggle in the national elections in the netherlands next year. the situation in the united kingdom has shown us where this can lead.
on behalf of the s&d group, in his previous speech in this house in january, the prime minister spoke of winston churchill, who advocated shared values, shared interests and the shared need for security. he spoke of it with fire, and that fire is needed. but the last six months have not brought that. on the contrary, after a battle between two churchill deputies, johnson and cameron, the british people have voted for brexit and the european flame has been burning a little more dimly. the plea for the european union as a market, as a candy store, has not convinced the british people. the ratio of growing economy has not won over the emotions of powerlessness and "take back control". in the age of globalisation, too many people in europe still see the european union as an extension of the free market, aimed at their security, their jobs, their social security and their security. europe must not threaten, but must protect, must act as a shield. only then can we improve the environment, take in refugees in a humane way, tackle tax evasion. only then can we arm ourselves against the dangers of the rings of instability around us. the dutch presidency has played a very active role in this. thank you very much for that. the pragmatism of this presidency has shown that europe is more than a market, more than a candy store, more than a profit model. and we have to show that. churchill saw that europe is more than a market, and let it also be a lesson to this presidency that if we want to win referenda, we must not rely on the story of that market alone, but on europe as a community, in which together, we, the countries and we, are stronger.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group the dutch presidency can best be described as big in small and small in big. the presidency has shown in technical dossiers that it can build bridges. i have had the privilege of experiencing this myself as rapporteur for the legal aid directive. that was a fine cooperation and i would like to thank all those who have worked hard on the dutch side to find solutions to this matter, where the views of the council and parliament were initially different. on a strategic political level, it is a very different story. of course, prime minister rutte cannot be held personally responsible for the outcome of the brexit referendum. that was and is a british matter. we can hold him responsible for his reaction to the outcome of that referendum. it was a question of getting more value for money for the citizens of the european union by enlarging and deepening the market. that's more market. at the beginning of his presidency, mark rutte said that he did not like to take things too far. i understand that because when you're in a tunnel, you can't see far. the tunnel of the dutch presidency was called market, market, market, and it is precisely this fixation on the market that is leading us all to become competitors of each other. the gain of one state equals the loss of the other. ask the unemployed in the military and the growing group who have been living in poverty for years. a world marked by globalization, based on market forces, makes people fearful and angry. they want control of their own environment. they want the space to create that with each other for a common future. but the fixation on the market pits people against each other and gives far-right road blocks a wide berth. that's why i say: mark, you were small in the big picture, stuck in your market fixation. what we need now is a vision so that people know that they are protected if they need care or if they want to get a good education. brussels must give people the space to build a new future together. mark, there's already a market.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party i also welcome the prime minister and the foreign minister. normally, i'm always here with a relatively negative story. but today we are talking about a historic dutch presidency and i can be positive, because the presidency of the last six months has not been shaped by the dutch government but by the dutch people and also by the british people. they have voted democratically to end the eu once and for all. i would say to those countries which will be allowed to use the hammer of the presidency in the years to come: stop trying to be difficult and endlessly search for a way to profile yourself. just get a referendum held in one of the member states in your six months, and you are assured of a historic presidency.
this eu, this evil union must be broken up. it is a union which cannot reform itself. the elite that runs this union has made a mess of it and is turning ever more clearly against the peoples of europe. the rejection of democracy is nowhere more evident than in the call to abandon referendums. the ukrainian referendum, the brexit referendum, the french and dutch referendums on the eu constitution, they are the clarion calls that this evil union must stop. they are hard evidence that this evil union no longer has any democratic legitimacy. i want an orderly dismantling of the eu before it is too late, before people unleash democratic revolution after people reject it. i therefore ask mr juncker again: get up there! now make way for a trustee who can liquidate the estate. [the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. apparently, mrs. vautmans has psychic powers about what i'm going to do. i'm not going to get into that. that's up to her. i do not know that glass globe, but i do know that before we had this european union, things were not bad at all in europe. we didn't have a financial crisis, we didn't have a banking crisis, we didn't have an immigration crisis. - do you want me to go on? i am looking forward to cooperation between european countries, economic cooperation as we have known it, but without this monstrous political overhead on top.
the british leave and they get all the blame. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. that's the blindness that's in this house. let mr weber talk to a german lorry driver who is sitting on the bench at home because an estonian colleague is now doing his job for a quarter of the price. let him talk to a fisherman who is now obliged to bring all the fish to shore down to the smallest postage stamp. and what happens to that fish? it's then ground into fish meal. and that fisherman has extra charges! the anti-european sentiment is not confined to the populists. what's the next move? self-reflection and humility, that's what it's all about. let the next summit be held in a monastery so that everyone can think and ask themselves: what was my part in this disaster? the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the development of the european union. there will be more referendums. it's renovation or destruction. never a waste of a good crisis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: why does the eu pay employers to fire people? why is frontex getting money to pick up so-called refugees instead of stopping them? and why did i have to travel a day to talk here in strasbourg for a minute and a half? spending ceilings are being raised. member states are obliged to finance all the objectives of the european union, while brexit will reduce the number of net contributors to the union. and although each british farmer receives a subsidy of 20 000 euros a year, those same farmers voted to leave the union. they too prefer free enterprise to subsidized citizenship. american research shows that increasing regulation has reduced economic growth by 0.8% per year since 1980. that's $13,000 a year for every citizen. but it takes energy and taxes, and therefore economic growth, to control the lives of others and to be controlled. it is no wonder that for 25 years the european union has promised nothing but prosperity and employment. because nowhere is economic growth lower than here. and that the public sector is a cost item is a lesson that the european union has clearly not understood. the eu budget is not a pillar of support but a chokepoint!
i have to say, we're way behind. it's really a sign on the wall that money going to tax havens has grown twice as fast in the last decade as savings in the world. and it is a sign on the wall that a third of foreign direct investment is through financial structures in tax havens. we are lagging behind and we must make up the gap, especially as a new offshore centre is emerging, namely the united kingdom, which now wants to reduce corporate tax rates to 15% and increase tax competition. i would therefore like to see a blacklist of tax havens, but also a framework for the united nations in which countries constantly agree on the approach to tax avoidance, including developing countries. the report by michael theurer and jeppe kofod is very welcome in making up for this backlog. thank you for that. it also shows that there is a complex of financial institutions, tax advisors that contribute to that tax avoidance. it needs to be addressed. financial institutions should lose their licence if they participate in transactions that are questionable, but there should also be a code of conduct for tax advisers if they participate in structures that are questionable, and the intertwining of universities and tax advisers should be ended. and if i read the commission saying that it will shed light on these activities, that is not enough. we're gonna have to take a hard line on this industrial complex of tax advisors and financial institutions.
this was a rush job and i don't really understand why we're proud of it. this proposal is a rattling one, and if i may give you an example, i'll make it personal: the dutch government does not control its borders. we have a long coastline and we're not doing anything about it. and the other member states feel that they cannot and they want to intervene. and which country is going to help? belgium, please! that land is next to us. belgium is going to control the dutch coast. and then the belgian coast guard picks up a smuggler. whether it's drugs or people, but the belgian coast guard does. then where do we land this smuggler to stand trial? in rotterdam or in ostend? under whose authority is this happening? or we make it worse: that smuggler is not getting caught. no, in a clumsy operation by the belgian coast guard in dutch waters, the smuggler drowns. who's in charge here? not the belgians. the dutch, because it's dutch water. ladies and gentlemen, it's not going to happen, this system. it's not the european border and coast guard. it is still national activities, it is frontex plus. it's not helping our refugee crisis, it's a front wheel. it's a rush job, it's a crochet job!
i live in the beautiful town of stramproy in the dutch province of limburg, and i live there a few hundred paces from the belgian border. i am therefore experiencing the luxury of a europe without internal frontiers as no one else has. but that luxury also brings obligations, and that obligation is that we are jointly responsible for the protection of our external borders, and that requires strict, good and efficient surveillance. the dutch external border is no longer at molenbeersel, but at lesbos and lampedusa. we just saw in 2015 that with that joint border guard, there's still a lot of backlog maintenance. it is therefore also good that europe has now taken action, that within six months this wish for better border control has become a reality and i look forward to its swift implementation. europeans expect us to ensure that the member states have their affairs in order when it comes to protecting the external borders. and it's up to us to carry that out now.
the question of approving a european border guard is not so easy to answer. the title of the agency raises questions such as: are we now going to have eu marshals guarding our borders? the original proposal of the european commission was indeed in that direction. the commission wants to be able to deploy border guards at the european external borders, if necessary, without being asked. in the negotiations between the council and parliament, that point has disappeared, and i think that is very right. now we have a reinforced frontex agency. it will be able to have a reserve of some 1 500 border guards provided by the member states. fifty of them are from the netherlands. the border guard will be deployed at the european external border only at the request of a member state and after a decision by all member states in the council. the agency shall support member states which continue to monitor their borders themselves. and that's especially true in hotspots, the arrival points for refugees. the border guard will also assist member states in returning asylum seekers who have been processed. we want open borders in europe, where they can be opened in a safe and responsible way. that's good for business, good for our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european border guard is therefore an example of cooperation to which we say yes.
the european parliament has called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's research and innovation policy is properly implemented. this will lead to economic growth, but also to new jobs. but the fact is that europe lags behind other continents when it comes to spending on research and development. that means that we must make every euro invested from the european budget pay off as much as possible. that was also the message of commission president juncker when he took office. he promised us in his state of the union address last year to increase the impact of european investment in research and innovation. the commissioners then announced, together with commissioner crețu, a seal of excellence to improve the quality of research funding. unfortunately, in my view, a juncker promise has remained too much, a hallmark and a manual, and we are still seeing too little of the promised increased impact in practice. the possibilities offered to companies and knowledge institutes are great on paper, but the practical implementation remains very difficult. for example, it remains difficult to combine the use of horizon 2020 and the european structural and investment funds to finance one large ambitious project. i would very much like to see the european commission take concrete steps to simplify this. i do not think that these measures should be devised overnight in a brussels office, but that they should be formulated together with practical experts. a little less from the top, a little more from the bottom. more synergy between horizon 2020 and other funds is not an end in itself, but it is important to make the best use of the money available in a tight budget. let us now look at this matter in the years ahead. let us ensure that investment in research and innovation leads to the greatest possible growth and jobs.
i thank you for the good examples you have given, but it can, no, it must be better with the synergy between horizon 2020 and the other funds and instruments. 90% of horizon 2020 investments will be in the old member states. 80% of the european structural and investment funds go to the new member states. it is a very important and necessary fund, but it is like two different worlds. it is not good that many young people are leaving the new member states and that rich regions are benefiting more where others are stagnating. europe is after all a balanced development and a good territorial cohesion. brexit showed more or less what the consequences of two separate worlds can be: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. these people turned their backs on such an eu. that is why we are now calling for a new innovation-driven design in the midterm review. strengthen the chain of knowledge, innovation in products and services across europe. it could be. we already have the esi funds with 60 billion euros for innovation and smart specialisation, as you say. this week robert madelin presented his "mission to innovate", an innovation pact, a new way of working together. our resolution and your idea for the european innovation council are timely for that adjustment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are discussing the commission work programme at the most difficult moment in the history of european integration. the european union is disintegrating at a frightening speed. anti—eu forces are on the rise, demolishing what has been built up over decades by the post-war generations but, instead of offering an alternative vision for the future, they just jump ship. thank you, mr farage. against this this backdrop, the work programme of the commission must be more than a mere list of legislative proposals. it must offer the outlines of a new european union because the kneejerk reflex to the current anti-eu mood is to weaken europe even further, assuming that if we scrap a few more directives people will suddenly embrace the european project. but that is a dramatic mistake. people’s existential anxieties will not be addressed by eliminating rules on vacuum cleaners or the curve of cucumbers. people are anxious and insecure because, in just a few decades, the world has changed beyond recognition. globalisation, the digital revolution and urbanisation have radically changed the way that we live. our communities have become much more diverse with immigration and advancing gender equality. political and economic leadership is no longer the monopoly of middle-aged white alpha males. agriculture and industry have been overtaken by the knowledge economy and what was considered a very good cv 30 years ago no longer opens doors today. our old familiar world has gone. there is a 50-50 split in the population that is reflected in the electorate, not just in europe, but also in the united states and elsewhere. each side is terrified of the world view of the other and our task is to offer a plan for healing this rift. we must do justice to both. it is not just about a victory of one group over the other, it is about creating a society where both feel safe and at home. the kneejerk reflex of weakening the eu in response to the rise of anti-eu sentiments is the wrong one. it does not do justice to those who do want to grasp the opportunities the 21st century world offers, nor does it help in any way those who feel threatened by a new world. it is a mistake to think we can weaken the anti—eu populists by weakening the eu. we have to make the eu stronger, more democratic and more accountable, and more able to act and address the big challenges of today. the european parliament and the european commission have, by and large, understood this, but the national governments are tearing the european union apart like a bunch of political hooligans, using europe like a punchbag, and this must stop. i call on all national politicians to stop europe-bashing. stop the blame game. stop the lies. take your responsibility for europe. we all have a responsibility to offer a real prospect to all european citizens, a europe where everyone has a place, a place for all – young and old, city and countryside, men and women, people of all shapes and sizes and all walks of life – and that must be the message of the commission work programme.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think the words most heard in these last weeks are ‘wake-up call’ and ‘no business as usual’. these words at least are being used by everyone but the big question is, of course: what do we do with that? are we really serious that we want a change of course, or is it just rhetoric that we are pretending to listen to citizens but then just continuing as we have always done? and i fear sometimes it is the latter. if you listen to some of the prime ministers, they are saying that what europe should do mainly is focus on the internal market and trade. that has been the message of europe for decades. that was the message that cameron was trying to get across to uk citizens. he lost on it. and i would almost like to say to those politicians who think that this would be the way to get out of this crisis: ‘it is not the economy, stupid’. it is not. it is people not feeling that the eu is giving them social protection, people feeling that their society is losing its grip because there is no control over multinationals and that the countries have no idea how to gain control over this. that is the core of the problem and that is what we expect from europe: to give protection to the people, to give social protection to the people, and that is where the eu needs to deliver. and that is why we need a change of course: in our economic governance, for example, which is still focused only on reducing debt. that needs to change. that is a reform that we are asking for, and that is very crucial. but it is the same when you look at future challenges. the challenges of the future lie in our economy. it needs to be a resource-efficient economy. that is the future challenge that needs to be addressed and not to be looking back at the 20th century. and look at the reaction of a lot of leaders. they say now in the uk that they want to lower corporate tax to keep companies. other countries want to get companies to come to their country. it is that race to the bottom that our citizens have rejected. and if we are not able to overcome this together – instead of a closed council where there is no transparency, where they are just fighting for their national interests – if we cannot overcome that, then we can carry on saying for a long time that is not business as usual but, in the end, it is business as usual: a race to the bottom where our citizens are losing out.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am very glad that mrs mogherini as high representative speaks clear words. a brexit must not prevent us from working closely together with the united kingdom in security matters. personally i hope that the impossible is possible and that the united kingdom stays with us, but that we will see. it means that nato is the best platform for working with the united kingdom, the united states and, of course, the countries of europe. nato is effective. of course in europe we should not stand idly by. if nato cannot operate, we have to do it ourselves. we have to put our money where our mouth is and invest in our defence capabilities and capacities. this is of vital interest. let me look to theodore roosevelt, who said, ‘speak softly and carry a big stick’. we do not need to have all the decorations but we should act when necessary. if we look at the relationship with russia, the high representative states – quite rightly – that the illegal annexation of the crimea cannot be accepted and neither can the intervention in eastern ukraine. so the sanctions are on. however, it is possible to work with russia in fields where we have common interests. that is possible and is called selective engagement. but one thing should be clear: russia should be back on the road of international law and we should do everything possible to make this happen. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. concerning the last point, of course we should be united in fighting terrorism and i agree that we should have the mechanism for that. concerning an own-defence unit, a european army, i would say that there is not a nato army either. i cannot see that far into the future, but at least we should work more closely together. for me, nato is crucial, but so is european cooperation. an army should be effective. we cannot have an army if some countries say that we act and some say that we do not act. an army is not functional then. in the end, there will be a kind of defence union, but do not look that far into the future. let us act now, when necessary, in close cooperation with our friends.
the crises in the world have a direct impact on the lives of europeans. think of the war in syria, which has already brought one million syrian refugees into our societies in recent years. or the terrorist attacks in brussels and paris, attacks by european youths inspired and directed by isis from iraq and syria. european cooperation must be directed towards the interests of our citizens. providing people with safety and security is a core mission for all of us. given the fragile world in which we live, our internal and external security are closely intertwined. speaking for 500 million europeans makes us a strong player on the world stage. we need to make much more use of that. in the end, however, the success of a strong european foreign policy is not measured by a good strategy on paper, but by results. i would also like to thank the high representative, mrs mogherini, for the ingredients. and now it is up to the member states to take the necessary steps.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not affected by the recent floods. i read on the website of the neue zürcher zeitung this afternoon that it was 130 dead. it evokes the terrible scenes of 1998. let us hope that the population is spared this. madam high representative, as rapporteur for the latest report by parliament on relations between the european union and china, i am very pleased with the commission document. there was also a strong demand from the academic world, as i learned when i asked for their advice on my report. i believe that academic expertise is also essential to get a clear picture of our current strategic partner. that's what it means, the strategic partner china. how else could we achieve a responsible european policy? i therefore ask you, myself and all of us here to consider an academic analysis of the situation which was published in the dutch press last saturday by a leading expert on china from leiden university. he said we must be careful not to end up in the position of chamberlain in the year 1938. we have to recognize that there are good developments towards a more prosperous country that participates in globalization, a country with competent and smart citizens. but, he says, we must also set very clear limits to a regime and we must especially think about this further that embraces a national socialist strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must set clear boundaries, and you have said that too. i hope you will implement that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is key for us to be both more ambitious and critical in further developing our relationship with china, and with other countries in asia. the relationship must become more meaningful and i certainly hope this strategy will help. this year, no doubt, we will devote a lot of energy and attention to trade and investment with china, and we need to ensure that these are fair and rules-based. the council and commission must play their role to ensure the eu takes effective measures, in compliance with world trade organisation rules, in time to fight dumping and other unfair trade practices. for strategic and security reasons, too, it makes sense to engage with china. however, intensifying our engagement must never lead to turning a blind eye to human rights violations. recent ideas and suggestions for further instrumentalising eu foreign policy to serve only the eu’s immediate interests are risky. this approach will backfire and it does not do justice to our history or our promise to strengthen people’s human rights universally and globally. who will defend these rights if not europe? this week, the un human rights council adopted a resolution stressing that human rights must also apply on line. we need now to ensure that china lives up to this too, as people in china are increasingly feeling the lack of free expression and access to information on line. mass censorship, and also the monitoring of internet users and hacking into their systems, are ongoing and are unacceptable. we must join the dots: where people are hindered from surfing on line on an open internet, eu businesses are effectively banned. human rights violations and protectionism can be one and the same, and a trade-off between the two is, therefore, a race to the bottom. i have a few specific questions. how are we going to ensure that china will be more constructive when it comes to keeping the internet open, for example in internet governance forums? is this an integral part of the strategy? how can we avoid forced data localisation? what is the high representative’s assessment of china’s role and the strategic implications when it comes to blockchain technology and its development?
author. – madam president, i wish to thank the high representative for participating in the human rights debate. unfortunately, we today again have to raise the human rights violations in bahrain that are ongoing. it is our fourth resolution in the last couple of years, and even though concrete proposals have been made to stop the tensions and the violence and the repression in the country, very little result has been booked. i think it is now time to really take new initiatives, as the eu. we’ve seen the us vice—president come out strongly and we’ve seen major newspapers write op eds, so the whole idea that the eu is oversensitive and is alone in this is not true. i think it is important – and on this i would be very interested to hear your thoughts – to see what we can do at this point before it further escalates. quite frankly, the ongoing repression and stripping of citizenship, with high prison sentences for simply having an expression online are unacceptable. they happen in a region that cannot afford more tension and destabilisation.
it is good that the european commission has opened infringement proceedings against germany and france. of course, preventing exploitation is important, also in road transport. but it cannot be that countries are taking a protectionist course under the guise of social aspects and social protection. it is not possible for member states to apply the minimum wage to international transport and to invent all kinds of administrative obstacles to deter foreign hauliers. we cannot accept that a proliferation of national regulations impedes the free movement of goods and services in europe. we see it in france: foreign carriers must complete additional forms, appoint a french representative who is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to the french enforcement authorities. that really leads to a disproportionate amount of red tape and extra costs. why is france creating an intermediate layer by working with representatives? wage reports can be submitted directly to a government agency, right? and how do these representatives handle privacy-sensitive information? i think that is a very good point. the most important thing was yet to come. there's a lot of uncertainty. foreign carriers risk being hit with stiff fines. i therefore call on france to suspend enforcement while the european infringement procedure is ongoing and i ask the european commission once again to make a strong request to the french authorities. [ the speaker shall reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
answer is "blue cardboard". yes, i think that is excessive. i'll answer you in french. i think that it is excessive to set up a representative on french territory, especially with the current means by which we can communicate directly, for example by e-mail, with a company located elsewhere in europe. i think it is the administrative procedures which block the free movement of goods, at the level of suppliers and service providers. i therefore look forward to the european commission proposing measures at european level.
for the enf group last week the european court of auditors issued a not too surprising report on moldova. in recent years, 780 million euros have gone up in smoke in that small country. how is it possible, mr president, that a country which every year falls far short in the corruption index is rewarded with millions of euros in money? and we can talk about innovation strategies here, but let's look at how innovative we can be in terms of spending tax dollars and not giving money to heavily corrupt countries. because, mr. chairman, every year, dozens of reports come in of tax fraud going unpunished. and so i ask you, on behalf of the taxpayer: when will this end?
investment is the basis for growth and jobs, and that is why the european union is also investing billions in research and development. that is why we invest in opportunities for the future, but an investment in innovation does not automatically create new jobs. this requires cooperation between industry, knowledge institutions, public authorities and civil society organisations. and that is exactly what we are aiming at with these so-called smart specialisation strategies. the experience with these strategies has been positive so far. that's very nice, but of course, there's always something better. so two points: firstly, not every region is the same. that is why i call on the regions not to copy each other's success models. you have to rely on your own strength. start from your own capabilities and base the regional innovation strategy on them. so base it on your own specific strengths and your own specific needs in the region. second point: smart specialisations can really provide a huge boost to new innovation and economic growth in the regions. but then it is essential that the european union, together with national governments, also provides these local and regional partners with sufficient financial resources to enable them to invest on the basis of this smart specialisation strategy. only then can we make the leap towards a stronger and more competitive europe.
i think you can say that the outcome of the g20 was on the one hand encouraging, but on the other hand very disappointing. because yes, there was a lot of talk about growth and jobs, but the solutions in the g20 statements are very much business as usual: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the global economy is suffering from a shortage of demand. the low interest rates and the large amounts of money held by governments and businesses must therefore be used to stimulate the real economy. it is such a pity that this was overlooked last week. investment, both public and private, and room for wage growth are sorely needed. i therefore sincerely hope that this friday in bratislava we will be able to see the light of day.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by thanking my fellow rapporteur, pablo zalba, for the excellent work so far and i am also looking forward to working closely together in the coming months. this interim report is primarily procedural and there was a reason for it, because we only just started with our work. there is, however, one strong political point in it and that is that we call upon the commission to better and more swiftly cooperate with the work of our committee of inquiry. that was the case when we adopted this interim report in committee. i must say that since then the commission has considerably improved its cooperation, and i hope that we can continue that way of working. so far, our committee of inquiry has collected a lot of, well, let us say, technical evidence. we spoke with car manufacturers, producers of emission control technologies, software experts, academics, ngos. most of the technical part we have done so far, and we have just begun with the political part of our inquiry. we have had hearings with a whole bunch of commissioners starting with former commissioners dimas, potočnik, verheugen and tajani, and yesterday evening with the current commissioners bieńkowska and vella. very crucial also will be our focus on the member states; i am very much looking forward to the hearings with national ministers in the coming weeks, and i sincerely call upon those ministers who have not yet confirmed their attendance to do so. european democracy also means that national ministers are accountable for their position in europe. we will also hear the american epa and the national type approval authorities. what have we found so far? well, first of all, we of course discovered that this is much more than just the volkswagen case. we have seen that other car manufacturers are shutting down their emission abatement technology when the temperature goes below 17°c, or after 22 minutes. that comes close to the 20-minute test cycle, so we have seen that the problem is much bigger than just volkswagen and that is something that we have to explore further on. also we still have a lot of questions concerning the role of member states. we do see that there has been quite a weak implementation and enforcement of european legislation and that is something that we sincerely have to discuss very closely with the national ministers. another question that we are still digging into is why did it take so long to develop this new real driving emission test? in 2010 the commission work document said that it would take roughly two years for the technical exercise to develop this test; we all know that it took many many more years and that is something that we have to dig into as well. finally, it is one year since the scandal broke and since then we have done a lot, but there are still millions and millions of diesel cars on the european roads that do not comply with current legislation. that is something that we have discussed yesterday with commissioner bieńkowska and i am very happy with her strong approach now. we are awaiting, within weeks, some infringement procedures, but it is certainly something that we are still going to focus upon. also the recall of vehicles, that is still primarily based on a voluntary approach. i am very much looking forward to the coming months. we will conclude our report in march next year and i hope that we can draw not only conclusions about what happened in the past, but also some conclusions, some lessons for the future, because that might be the most important part of our inquiry.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here today. i think if you just look at what we learned after half a year of the committee of inquiry, what is very important is that all the technical experts say there is no technical reason at all to switch off any abatement technology. it is technically not needed for protecting engines or anything else. we know that a lot of, if not all, car manufacturers are using software to switch off these technologies. only volkswagen has been sentenced for using defeat devices, but fiat are using it, shutting it off after 22 minutes, and other car manufacturers are turning it off below 17°c. there is no reason for that. still, no other car manufacturer is being blamed for using defeat devices, and action by the commission is urgently needed. more importantly, as we speak, polluting cars are still driving on our streets. when is the commission going to coordinate a european recall to get those dirty cars off our streets?
the committee of inquiry, chairman, is unanimous halfway through the drive: the investigation is moving in the right direction and more information needs to be received from all concerned as quickly as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to name a few hot pursuers: how should the interconnectedness between the public authorities and the automobile industry be tackled? and those thousands of lobbyists? and how do we get really clean air? i think, mr. chairman, there's only one solution: zero-emission cars as soon as possible. there is no such thing as a clean diesel car. there are no clean gasoline cars. not with and not without rogue software. driving on electricity and hydrogen, that's the future. let the european union devote all its energy to this. clear the way for the zero-emission car.
rapporteur. – mr president, i believe that this was a very encouraging debate, a debate that was obviously not about the interim report, because that was limited to procedures, but much more about the current state of the investigation of our inquiry committee. why did i believe that it was so encouraging? because i noticed a very broadly shared common understanding of the problem that did not necessarily already reach commonly shared conclusions, but will be the challenge for my dear colleague, pablo zalba, and myself to get parliament behind shared conclusions in the end. but i do believe that we are on the right track. we should not forget that we are only half-way through our investigation. there is still a lot to be investigated and a lot of evidence to be found. i would like to highlight two elements. i think it was seb dance who very eloquently talked about the myriad of responsibilities. he said – and many others did as well – that there seems to be nobody really responsible in the end – not the commission, not a member state, not national authorities, etc. that might be the core of the problem that we are facing here. i am sure that, when we dig much deeper into that, we can also draw conclusions for the future, not only reflecting the car industry, but other policy fields as well. finally, i think it was my colleague ivo belet who said that, if we look at responsibilities, a lot has to do with the inability of the member states to take their responsibility. i believe that it is a very important thing that came today. many talked about naming and shaming, whether to do so or not. i believe that in politics in a well-functioning democracy political accountability is crucial, and that might mean naming and shaming if that is necessary. i am not afraid of it and i am not looking for it, but it is part of a strong democracy. that is what we are still building together in europe, so let us continue with that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say this to our colleague mr legutko: i think that eight minutes of filibustering, caricature and ridicule will probably get you a lot of airtime on polish television, but you are not actually doing anything for the interests of the polish people. i would like to underline the fact that this debate today is not about poland, and we have had similar debates about situations in other countries, as you know full well. what this is about, and i will quote the council presidency – pay attention because i rarely ever quote the council presidency – who said that ‘the issues at stake go to the heart of our commitment to the union’. that, mr legutko, is what we are talking about today. the situation that we are going through might be described as the growing pains of a community of values that is developing. we readily accept that the commission intervenes in matters of tax evasion, state aid, or disrespect for environmental standards. but then we say – and mr timmermans always says – we have to be big on big things. this is big. this goes right to the heart of what the european union is all about: about the rule of law, about fundamental rights, and about democracy. in this sense, i would give full support to the initiative of commissioner timmermans. however, i would like to make one remark because i think that the current situation shows the limits and weaknesses of the toolkit that we have to protect and promote democracy, the rule of law, and fundamental rights. i am glad that, in this house, we are jointly working on a mechanism that will monitor and evaluate all the member states because i think that we should move beyond the situation in which there are accusations of countries being singled out, or of interventions being politically motivated. personally, mr legutko, you have accused some people here of being politically motivated. you know, we are not in government, so we have absolutely no issue here and no interest. but i think it is very important that the european union provides itself with a toolkit that will allow us to promote, protect and uphold democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. that includes, in the part of the european union where this fantastic people, the polish people, live – and i would wholeheartedly endorse the actions by the commission.
for the greens/efa group i did not realise how different the view of the present polish government was from that of the european commission until the prime minister of poland came to speak here in january. she made no distinction between the party, the government, the nation and the people. questions and comments on the new legislation, which restricts judges and silences journalists, were seen by her as criticism of the citizens of poland. which brings us to the following misunderstanding: european standards and values, european fundamental rights, concern the individual, sovereignty over his own body, sovereignty over his own thoughts, such as the right of women to dispose of their own bodies. i would like to say to the present polish government: you seem to have a different definition of law and sovereignty: the right and the sovereignty of the group, of the people. however, poland has been fighting hard for democracy in recent decades. you ended a totalitarian system. you took back the rights of the citizens. you became a democratic country in a union of democratic countries. and right now, you're going back down. where the law shifts from the individual to the group or the state, people fall between the cracks. for example, women, half the population. restricting the right to abortion forces women and girls to commit criminal acts. that is very unwise. and we all know that the number of abortions in a country is not about right, but about need. the green message to the polish government is therefore: you claim to be the heir of solidarnosc. then you cannot restrict the freedoms of women, of the law or of journalists. and to the polish people, i say: the european greens will continue to fight for your rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, after a summer in which the events in turkey were headline news all over europe, it is good to have a debate here with federica mogherini, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission, on the current situation in that country. it is a lot that the turkish population has to deal with: more than three million refugees, terrorist attacks on an almost daily basis and, on top of that, a bloody coup attempt on 15 july 2016. that night left a deep impression in turkish citizens’ minds. the government said that the temporary state of emergency would not influence people’s daily lives, but so far more than 100 000 people have been directly affected either by losing their jobs or by ending up in a prison cell. it is understandable that, in the aftermath of the coup, a number of measures had to be taken, but the current situation also leaves us very concerned. it is difficult to understand what the link is between respected journalists like asli erdogan and the coup plotters. it is difficult to understand what the link is between thousands of teachers and the coup plotters, and it is also difficult to understand how appointing trustees to municipalities and dismissing directly elected mayors is related to the events of 15 july. turkey can be proud that its citizens massively went out on the streets to defend their democracy that night. it can also be proud that all political forces joined hands in rejecting any illegal overthrow of the democratic institutions. turkish democracy does have the chance to come out of this situation strengthened: by embracing media plurality, which played a crucial role that night in informing the people; by working together with all political forces on much-needed constitutional reform; and, as a last point, by proving that the rule of law is the guiding principle in bringing the perpetrators to justice. on a final note, i would like to also highlight, on our part, the fact that cooperation with all the eu institutions on turkey is of great importance and it is important that we keep sending the same messages. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i think there is one lesson that we must learn: that although we have great concerns about certain developments in turkey, just shutting the door and thinking that if we do not speak with the government or address the issues, perhaps the next day things will be wonderful in turkey is not sufficient. i think we have to be realistic here: not talking with one another is not an option. when we talk, we have to do it respectfully. so, i think, yes, turkey is a valid partner to discuss things with and also a valid partner sometimes to raise our concerns with.
mr president, first of all, the relations between turkey and the european union and the member states should be governed by facts and not by all kinds of emotions. this means we should be clear that everybody who has a role in the eu, its institutions or the member states has denounced the coup d'état. there was no sympathy for it at all and there was a direct reaction. happily, today we see that both members of the opposition – of the democratic opposition in turkey – and also some government representatives have come to the conclusion that there was some overreaction, and that the process of dealing with the aftermath of the coup d'état and bringing to justice those who committed it, or are thought to be involved in it, should be governed by independent judges and by the rule of law. that is vital. secondly, turkey is an important neighbour of the european union, and is a nato partner, irrespective of the whole discussion about membership. this means that visa liberalisation should be subject to the criteria set. if they are met, liberalisation will follow. if not, it will take more time. no deadlines should be applied. the same goes for the membership issue. let us also come to the conclusion that the visa deal is on. it is good both for turkey and for the european union. the turkish government should do everything possible to prevent people who sympathise with erdogan or gülen taking to the streets in the netherlands and in germany: such activity should be stopped. and we should keep calm and have a constructive talk with turkey.
this morning i spoke by telephone with a turkish citizen about the situation in his country. he painted a sinister picture of a totally poisoned social climate. you would be accused of being a gülenist for whatever reason. then the prison gates will open for you. sadly and alarmingly, the same political accusation (of being a gülenist) is causing a great deal of unrest and division among the turkish diaspora in eu member states, including my country, the netherlands. because, as today's evidence shows: erdogan is influencing the turkish diaspora in europe in a way that has never been seen before. his main tool for this is the diyanet, the presidium for religious affairs. instead of the applicant country turkey implementing european political principles, the eu is now faced with the implementation of erdogan's islamist ideology on its own territory. and in passing, erdogan continued to push for visa-free travel for turkish citizens to the eu, probably with success. then erdogan is the hero of the home front and the diaspora. it is a good illustration of the failure of european policy towards turkey.
mr president, the despicable coup in turkey was rightly condemned and today we stand with the people of turkey, but i fear that the national unity we see will be short-lived. turkish democracy needs deepening and needs to be meaningful. yes, the perpetrators should be brought to justice but in fair trials and with proportionate measures, and that excludes the death penalty. let us be clear: the measures we now see after the failed coup and the anti-terror laws are being abused for disproportionate cleansing and silencing of critics. the rule of law was, is and will remain our group’s key priority. the fact that gülenists and the ak party together built an illiberal coalition for so long and the government now accuses the gülenists of this coup is a confirmation of a breakdown of accountability, checks and balances and transparency. we must work with turkey on security measures; trade and people-to-people relations are strong; but let us not narrow the relationship to the toxic migration deal or the crippled accession talks. turkey needs tough love. ‘friends tell each other the truth’ goes the old turkish saying, and we should remind them of that and build our relations on our own principles.
written. with nearly 60 million people worldwide on the move, it's good that the un is coming together to talk about the big challenges around global migration. but the great challenges call for ambitious solutions, which i regret that i do not see reflected in the provisional conclusions of the summit. the un countries cannot agree on a large-scale resettlement, so it is decided to discuss it again next year, but a solution is needed now for millions of people who are entitled to international protection. the european commission proposes to resettle 20 000 people a year in europe, but i would ask federica mogherini to adjust this ambition, and advocate resettling at least 100 000 vulnerable refugees a year. the eu must take the lead and fulfil its humanitarian duty by setting a good example, namely: the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
we all know the bulgarian truck driver who is on the road for months, eating his meals along the highway. we know the polish construction worker who works in a dutch construction pit and shares a room with ten others at night. and we also know that western european worker who sits at home unemployed and thinks, what are we going to do about it? social dumping takes many forms in europe, and unfair competition through secondment is one of them. as rapporteur, i want to work very hard to make this posting fairer in the future, but the european single market will not be social all at once if the posting directive is simply amended. competition between workers and firms too often creates a competitive battle with a race to the bottom. the strengthening of social rights very often goes against the dictates of the free market. so more needs to be done. that is why i am very pleased with the report by mr balas. fortunately, it's a very good start. i hope that the commission will indeed respond quickly to the proposals and come forward with proposals on mobile workers, pseudo-independence and social security fraud.
social dumping is a very real problem. there is no legal or political consensus on the definition of the term. but ask the dutch lorry driver who is unemployed at home or ask the portuguese concrete slab worker who is put to work in another member state under dubious circumstances. they can tell you very clearly what social dumping feels like. we need to do a lot better at enforcing existing rules. we need to implement new rules, such as the enforcement directive, much better and faster. we must quickly close existing loopholes in the legislation, such as the posting directive. we need to better equip labour inspectorates to operate and enforce across borders. but let's also be clear: we must not, under the guise of fighting social dumping, put into practice the unrealistic wishes of the socialist group in this house. i am thinking in particular of paragraph 49, for example, which calls on the commission to radically change the rate of income depending on work and to demand a basic income for all europeans. let us not pollute the debate on social dumping with proposals of this kind, but let us focus on realistic, efficient measures which actually benefit the hardworking european.
author. – mr president, it is a privilege to have, for the second evening in a row, a midnight debate with commissioner vella and i also welcome the council. let me start by thanking all my colleagues who were co-authors of this resolution. i think that we found a unique way of working together to come forward with a very coherent cross—party resolution. yesterday there was an article in the independent by the secretary of cites (the convention on international trade in endangered species), john scanlon, and the director of the united nations development programme (undp), helen clark, in which they stated that the upcoming cites conference is the most critical cites meeting in history. i think they are right. the poaching crisis has reached an unprecedented level and because of that there is huge pressure on the cites system. can we fix it? can we make sure that it will work in the future in a better way than it is doing now? for europe, this cop is quite unique as well because it is the first conference of the parties in which the eu is participating as an official partner party. that is, of course, a very important step. strangely enough, it has led to criticism from two sides: from third countries criticising the eu for wanting to have 28 votes with one voice, like the us – and i hope the commissioner can explain what the latest state of play is there – but also internally from our own member states. i understand that during the coreper meeting where this was discussed there was quite an intensive debate about which topics the eu should speak on with one voice, and which it should speak on with 28 voices. i hope that is not a precedent for the future, especially because i was present in 2010 at the cites cop in doha, and the eu contribution there was very ineffective. the commission, of course, had no speaking rights at that conference of the parties and the member states were very disorganised and not united. there was a common position but there did not seem to be any common strategy, and that was quite painful to see. so my question to the council is to ask whether it can explain how it is going to ensure that we are united and speaking with one voice and making the best of the fact that we have a common position there. i believe that the eu is ready for this conference of the parties. we finally have our eu action plan, which we discussed previously. parliament is now working on its reaction to that so i am looking forward to a strong european position. there again, i must say that what is lacking are strong commitments from the member states. let me come to the resolution. this resolution is different from previous resolutions on cites. i believe it is much more integral and holistic than ever before. we are not only talking about elephants, rhino or the psychedelic lizard: no, we are focusing on the main problem that we face in the world in this regard, namely wildlife crime – a growing threat to biodiversity and the environment, and also a global problem in terms of security, the rule of law, human rights and sustainable development, because we all know that those things go together. like the agenda of the conference of the parties, we are focusing on different issues than before, like demand reduction, sustainable livelihoods, combating corruption and effectiveness and implementation of cites. i must say that the success of these elements will really determine the future of cites, i would like to highlight five elements. first of all, how are the commission and the member states going to succeed in getting stronger enforcement of the cites rules? one of the main problems is that the rules are simply not enforced in the right way. that applies not only in countries where we might expect it to be so, but also in the eu itself, and paragraph 28 of our resolution is pretty clear. also within the eu we see widespread abuse of cites documents. secondly, corruption is a fundamental problem and the eu has tabled a resolution, together with senegal. my question is to ask whether you believe that this resolution will be successful in johannesburg and, if it were adopted, would it also be effective in practice? maybe you can elaborate on that. thirdly, regarding demand reduction, we see several proposals on the table. please tell us the latest state of play and how we can assist in reducing demand in many countries. my fourth point concerns the cites secretariat. everything that we want them to do puts more work on their shoulders but, if you look at their budget, in real terms it is now lower than it was 10 years ago. so the cites secretariat is simply not fit for the tasks that we give it, and official contributions are relatively small. so my question is to ask whether both the commission and the member states, on an individual basis, are willing to increase their contribution. that would not only help the secretariat but would also show commitment and trust in cites. finally, on the resolution on hunting trophies: this is important for us and it is also important to send a political message to the world that trophies should be subject to strict criteria, if allowed at all. but i understand that the usa and canada do not support the european resolution. so, do the commission and member states still foresee success in this field? to conclude, we need a high sense of urgency, unity and, please, a strong european common focus.
president, this european commission is bad because it exposes citizens to the terror of islam and of hundreds of thousands of migrants from islamic countries who despise our culture. because it supports the wrong regimes, like neo-nazis in ukraine, the dictatorship in iran, the anti-semitic palestinian authority and the sultan of ankara. because it is turning the economies of southern europe upside down, throwing millions of people out of work and leaving the citizens of northern europe to pay the cost. this union is not good and its governing elite is not good. so i repeat that mr juncker must resign. if he does not, i ask him to at least promote the following: not visa liberalisation for turkey, ukraine and other rogue states, not taking in more migrants into the eu and returning the current migrants, not bringing powers to brussels and restoring national borders and powers, but above all de-islamising the eu.
in writing. ‒ the pvda-euro delegation believes it is important that democracy and the rule of law are protected in all eu member states. we therefore support today's joint resolution on the situation in poland. the polish government is undermining fundamental principles of a functioning democratic state of law by, for example, restricting the independence of the constitutional court. this is contrary to the european treaties and we therefore support the european commission, which has launched legal proceedings against it. however, we cannot support the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl and the greens/efa groups, even though we agree in substance with the points raised, such as lgbt rights, women's rights and the protection of refugees. we believe that a european parliament resolution on the rule of law in a member state should be directed at laws actually adopted by the government. however, there are no legislative proposals in poland on these subjects. that is why we abstain on these amendments. we are of course following developments in poland closely in the field of abortion and minority rights. if the government adopts laws in this area that are contrary to european values, we will fully support any measures from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the pvda-euro delegation believes it is important that democracy and the rule of law are protected in all eu member states. we therefore support today's joint resolution on the situation in poland. the polish government is undermining fundamental principles of a functioning democratic state of law by, for example, restricting the independence of the constitutional court. this is contrary to the european treaties and we therefore support the european commission, which has launched legal proceedings against it. however, we cannot support the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group and the greens/efa group. even if we agree on the substance of the issues raised, such as lgbt rights, women's rights and the protection of refugees. we believe that a european parliament resolution on the rule of law in a member state should be directed at laws actually adopted by the government. however, there are no legislative proposals on these subjects in poland. that is why we abstain on these amendments. we are of course following developments in poland closely in the field of abortion and minority rights. if the government adopts laws in this area that are contrary to european values, we will fully support any measures from the eu.
in writing. ‒ the pvda-euro delegation believes it is important that democracy and the rule of law are protected in all eu member states. we therefore support today's joint resolution on the situation in poland. the polish government is undermining fundamental principles of a functioning democratic state of law by, for example, restricting the independence of the constitutional court. this is contrary to the european treaties and we therefore support the european commission, which has launched legal proceedings against it. however, we cannot support the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl and the greens/efa groups, even though we agree in substance with the points raised, such as lgbt rights, women's rights and the protection of refugees. we believe that a european parliament resolution on the rule of law in a member state should be directed at laws actually adopted by the government. however, there are no legislative proposals in poland on these subjects. that is why we abstain on these amendments. we are of course following developments in poland closely in the field of abortion and minority rights. if the government adopts laws in this area that are contrary to european values, we will fully support any measures from the eu.
the commissioner, when i was a little girl in the 1970s, had a popular television series: the man of six million. and i'm happy to say that you've far surpassed that, because that tough guy has now been surpassed by a tough woman: the commissioner of 13 billion. the 13 billion is, of course, an astronomical sum, especially when you relate it to the fact that it is the failure of one company to pay enough tax. when i saw the press release describing your approach, i really had to read it again. i read that right . in 2014, 0.005 percent of the population? that is, of course, a ridiculously low amount. we all would. we want everyone to pay a fair share of taxes. we all do, big and small companies, but certainly the multinationals. the 13 billion is already being fought for, because ireland could of course use that money for its own good. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any advantage to apple. the united states is already calling for a large proportion of it to be transferred to them. i fear that it will take a very long time to clarify that. you yourself have indicated that it took the commission, i believe, three years of preparation to get this matter under control. i am a little afraid that with ireland and apple taking this case to court, it will be another year before we finally get clarity. i would therefore urge all concerned to provide information, whatever it may be, as soon as possible. because we all want to get this clear as soon as possible. for us politicians, this case shows once again that we really need to work hard to simplify and make our tax systems more transparent, because it is just too complicated now and that is why it is taking too long. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. it is very clear to us that transparency is the most important weapon. we are still looking at the impact assessment requested, but we have seen that country-by-country reporting has not caused problems for banks, where this obligation already applies.
i would like to congratulate commissioner verstager on this perhaps not uncontroversial but very courageous approach. it is also badly needed, because the practice of tax evasion is morally corrupt if tax laws apply to everyone, but not everyone is equal before the same law. it's also economically damaging if the coffee house doesn't have to pay the same as starbucks or if a local bookstore doesn't have to pay the same as amazon. it is economically damaging and morally corrupt and it deserves to be addressed. i think the approach taken by the commission is more than right, because it ensures a level playing field so that everyone has the same opportunities. i would like to say to my irish colleagues that they cannot continue to play the role of freerider. i myself come from a country which has sometimes played, or appears to play, a dubious role in the practice of tax evasion. to be honest, i think the robe is more appropriate. i hope that the irish colleagues will also see that fine because one country cannot pass the costs on to another country, in the role of a free-riding exploiter. finally, i would like to draw a comparison with neelie kroes, the predecessor of commissioner verstager. she didn't choose this approach. in fact , i 'm not . she defends american companies. she has become the lackey of big money in the service of american business and i see a big difference between then and now.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's asylum policy is properly implemented. i won't play that game. to send asylum seekers who have been processed back to their country of origin, identity papers are required. the greens are also very sympathetic to this. it is logical to adapt a laissez-passer to modern times by adding a passport photo and other personal characteristics. the greens will nevertheless vote against this proposal. - why? - why? the european commission did not provide an impact assessment but it does make it appear that this will increase the return. the assumption that a modern identity card will persuade third countries to take back their citizens is not based on anything. many asylum seekers who have been processed end up stranded because their country doesn't want them back. there are even those who would like to return but cannot. we are also concerned that third countries which are much less democratic than we are will have access to the personal data of their formerly displaced citizens. that could put their citizens in danger. the number of refugees in the world is growing, and since the tunisian revolution the european commission's proposals have become increasingly repressive. if that's what we learned from the summer of 2015, we're on the wrong track.
i am glad that we can adopt this regulation tomorrow for a european travel document and that we are thus also showing the importance of an efficient return policy. the return policy is a crucial precondition for a functioning asylum and migration policy. but it is also a weak link in the european process. to illustrate this, i would like to read a passage from the european commission's website, which states: every year, between 400 000 and 500 000 foreign nationals are ordered to leave the eu because they have entered or are staying here irregularly. however, only 40% of them are sent back to their home country or to the country from which they have travelled to the eu. forty percent of the people who aren't allowed to stay here just go back. that means that 60 percent -- more than half, or between 240,000 and 300,000 migrants a year -- don't care about our rules, processes and laws and just stay put. some african countries have only a 16 percent return rate. this is a gigantic, gigantic problem. if we cannot do anything to make this return policy more efficient, to ensure that the rates of return are higher, it will be very difficult to maintain the support and the financial resources in the long term for the reception of refugees who really deserve our help. for let there be no misunderstanding about that: it is the real refugees who flee war and violence and seek protection in europe who are the victims.
since the agreements with turkey on migration, very few people have crossed the aegean. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. or worse: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but this group in greece also includes thousands of unaccompanied children. children who have fled to europe without their parents or whose parents did not survive the journey. children who, upon arrival in greece, have been locked up without pardon, without education, without legal aid and without decent supervision. children in a desperate situation because there seems to be no place for them in europe. of the promised redistribution of over 66 000 refugees from greece to the rest of europe, less than 4 000 have actually been transferred to another european country after one year. that is the same number that arrived on the greek islands in one day less than a year ago. why are these unaccompanied minors not given the highest priority in relocation? and what are our political leaders worth if they cannot ensure that europe delivers on its promises and cannot at least ensure that fundamental rights are protected for everyone, but especially for the most vulnerable, such as unaccompanied children? as far as i am concerned, we are starting today with the redistribution of these young people to other member states. because my europe does not abandon these children, but cares for them.
the european commission believes that there are two major problems in the netherlands. the commission says that the protection against dismissal should be abolished because there are too few people in permanent employment. but that will cost vulnerable workers their jobs. and because there are too many one-man companies, the commission feels that they should be forced to close down by higher taxes. however, these one-man businesses were set up by people who had first lost their jobs because of the influx of cheap labour from the eastern european member states and this was encouraged by the commission. i have asked commissioner thijssen questions on both points. not only did it take three months to formulate an answer, it also appears to find an unemployment rate of 7% quite acceptable. i have asked her questions for two months and she has not responded. the commissioner cannot or will not answer questions on this, mr president, and she shows a lack of understanding of the situation in the netherlands. we can therefore miss this commissioner as much as we miss her recommendations.
for the ppe group i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, and also the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on transport for the work they have done, as well as mr dombrovskis, who is being allowed to replace the commissioner for the internal market tonight and is doing so in a very professional manner. it may seem a little strange that we are talking about conventional postal delivery in this digital world, but i have learned in the last few months that conventional postal delivery and also the general service provided by de post are extremely important for many people in europe. i'm not just talking about the elderly or people in less densely populated areas. actually, everyone still has orders that go through the mail. as the commissioner has said, the package directive follows. we all know that with e-commerce, it's a huge growing business. but while i have the floor, i would ask you to find out how many implementation reports the european parliament has dealt with at the moment. we are still faced with huge packages of own-initiative reports, but at the beginning of this period we agreed that the european parliament would focus more on the introduction and enforcement of agreed legislation. there was a huge story from jerzy buzek about execution reports, but i have the impression that not much is being done about it and perhaps you and your department can deny that.
i think all the previous speakers have said it: smes are the engine of economic employment in all our member states. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, as the economy recovers, businesses can grow and find sufficient financing to do so. the commission has already put forward a number of important proposals on the capital markets union. we shall be discussing the prospectus directive of my colleague, mr petr ježek, in a moment. that's a step in the right direction. securitisation can also help, as can the proposal to improve the rules for venture capital funds. all of these are important contributions to that. but the small business sector has not been helped at all. that is still 80% dependent on bank financing. as rapporteur for financial technology, i would therefore like to make a start by giving sufficient attention to the new opportunities that exist in relation to crowdfunding or online lending platforms, where entrepreneurs can come into direct contact with investors. i would urge the commission to pay sufficient attention to the fintech side as well, as this can provide additional help to entrepreneurs in obtaining financing. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this excellent report.
the committee of the regions has adopted a report on the implementation of the it is important that we take seriously the plight of those who are most vulnerable, especially in times of economic stagnation and increased globalisation. the benefits of trade always create shifts in wealth. the losers therefore have reason to complain if they do not share in the growth that trade brings. the first responsibility for this, of course, lies with the member states. but in terms of shock absorption and solidarity between member states, the egf is a very important fund. i therefore hope that the commission will take this report to heart, and in particular the recommendations of the inta committee, namely that trade agreements should be pre- and post-trade to the loss of employment and that workers should be involved in the restructuring plans of companies in good time so that they are able to negotiate seriously the associated social plan. i hope that in this way the egf can be improved and help those who are losing out to globalisation.
president. - the regulation is clear on the purpose of the globalisation fund. the fund is designed to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of the global economic and financial crisis to get back to work. but the evaluation teaches us two things: first, less than half of the people who receive benefits from the fund find a job. that's hardly a success. secondly, there is no longer any global crisis, so the conditions are not being met. only in the european union is economic growth continuing to be low, and in the euro countries it is even worse than in the other member states. so my question is very simple: the fund doesn't meet its own criteria and it's not successful, so why do we keep putting money into this? the only one who is happy with this fund is the european union itself. the fact that the eu has gradually gained control over economic, financial and social policy is a very bad sign.
subject: three years ago, mugabe's zanu-pf won the elections in zimbabwe and put an end to the unity government. under that unity government, we saw some economic growth. it's gone now. millions of people need food aid, salaries are not being paid, civil servants are being fired en masse. in short, the country is bankrupt again and the zanu government is reverting to the repressive tactics of the past. the protests of the last few months are being crushed by the government. activists are disappearing behind bars and banning demonstrations is being sprayed. the european parliament wants to give the people of zimbabwe a heartfelt message today. one more thing about our joint resolution: the commission has already made a number of proposals. mugabe and his cronies still have travel restrictions and should continue to have them, but the effect of further sanctions was really worn off two years ago. i have therefore tabled an amendment to our joint resolution to express that.
for the ecr group repressive regimes are exposing themselves, and this historical fact also applies to president mugabe's reign of terror in zimbabwe. with a third of the population now dependent on food aid for survival and most zimbabweans eating only once a day, mugabe's wife grace's shopping and spending habits have earned her the telling nickname gucci grace. mugabe's desire for power knows no bounds after 36 years, despite the free fall into which he has now plunged his country through pure mismanagement. the 92-year-old mugabe has now re-nominated himself for the 2018 elections, as only god can remove him from office, as he says. that is correct, mr president. meanwhile, many in zimbabwe are looking to the future after mugabe with great concern. a successor from among his accomplices in the national ruin is anything but an attractive prospect. the eu must therefore be able to rely on the suffering civilian population of zimbabwe at this very tense stage.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. september was a record month, with 6.6 billion waste reported in september. $5.7 billion in ports, docks and breakwaters. all of them fell into the water. 780 million disappeared in moldova and 129 million went up in smoke in the palestinian territories. mr president, at this time in september the dutch government is making available 50 million euros for long-term care for the chronically ill and next year the healthcare premium in the netherlands will also increase by 10 euros. the netherlands is putting on its belt and brussels is still wasting money. mr president, i have this to say. a mother saves every dollar she has to pay for her daughter's school trip, while at the same time, two blocks away, a father is throwing 300 euros into a slot machine. - it can't be. that's out of line. president. - the next item is the report (doc.
we have been in lebanon for a week and a half with the civil liberties committee, and we have seen on the ground that the eu's support for the country is really crucial. support to help lebanon cope with the more than one million syrian refugees who have sought refuge in the small neighbouring country. 489 000 syrian children between the ages of 3 and 18 are in lebanon. it is part of our responsibility to ensure that they can also go to school. the commissioner was right when he said: not just syrian children, but please also keep an eye on other vulnerable children, such as those of the local lebanese population, but also those of the palestinian refugees. the following shall apply to syrian refugees: many of these children have missed parts or sometimes entire years of schooling because of circumstances, and that requires a tailored approach to ensure that these children do not end up being the child of the bill. this approach costs money and we have seen on the ground that the support from the european union is very much appreciated and also works. but it is more than just money and i am very glad that the commissioner made the remark about residence permits. more and more syrian refugees in lebanon are having trouble renewing their residency papers. at present, about 70% of the population do not have the right documents, and this also affects the children. some parents are afraid to send their children to school because they fear being checked on those papers. so i ask the european commission: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. the european aid budget for lebanon is working. it is tangible. people are noticing it in their own daily lives, so let's make sure that we continue that, that we possibly expand that, because as long as there are still a hundred thousand syrian children in lebanon who are not going to school, our work is not done.
mr president, when we listen to the public debate about refugees and asylum seekers in europe, it would be easy to think that europe is facing the main crisis, and it also sounds as if the deal or the statement with turkey – as the unofficial and intransparent deal is now called – is the main solution. this picture could not be more false, and it only distracts from the urgent need for the eu member states to do their homework and ensure that our borders are protected and that they develop a common eu position to engage actively with the goal of facilitating a negotiated end to the horrifying war in syria. as long as assad’s and russian planes are bombing residents and homes, people will not return. let there be no confusion: it is the lebanese who have taken extraordinary numbers of people in need. it is the half a million syrian children who live in an absolute crisis: half of them not enrolled in schools, and girls being particularly vulnerable. i have no illusions about the short- or long-term impact of a lost generation on these people themselves and also on us. we must connect the dots and realise that our fates are intertwined. if we prefer sheltering the region over opening our doors, we must invest in safe, sufficient and accessible education for kids in lebanon. we cannot afford for lebanon to destabilise, and it would cause more suffering for children. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – i heard only a statement from my respected colleague. however, let me reiterate that, indeed, the russians are playing a destructive, unacceptable role in bombing innocent people in syria, and it is high time that the eu stopped allowing this to happen. it is in the vacuum that the eu and the international community have left that the destructive forces that are killing people have taken too much space. i think that we should be very focused on what we have to do ourselves, which is on the one hand to allow for a humane and functioning asylum policy – and that goes for all eu member states – and on the other hand to invest in a common position and a more ambitious diplomatic approach to a negotiated peace in syria.
in two weeks' time, it's world food day, but by august 8th, we'd already used more of the earth than it can provide. mr president, when i was growing up, there was no earth overshoot day, but today, there's a generation that's growing up that takes what they want, even at the expense of others. today, one billion people are overweight, and nearly one billion people go to bed hungry. it is not because there is too little food, but because of our own consumption patterns and our own agricultural policy. we can feed everyone if we stop wasting food. we can feed everyone if brussels stops encouraging intensification and overproduction. we can feed everyone if we give kids apples instead of school milk. mr president, tomorrow is world animal day and the party for the animals is asking you to think about the 7 billion animals in our livestock industry, because we can fight hunger and save these animals a long road of suffering by stopping the waste of food for animal feed. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
the rapporteur. when i started working as rapporteur for this legal aid directive over a year and a half ago, i seriously considered that it would be many years before we had an agreement on it. this was because the legislation in question is at the intersection of criminal law and social security, and this is a sensitive area. i think the commission was very much aware of this, because the commission's original proposals really only extended to legal aid in the case of a european arrest warrant and to provisional legal aid in other cases. in a separate recommendation, the commission also included rules on, inter alia, the quality of legal aid. that was very modest. if we are to have real trust in each other's legal systems, then that includes trust in each other's legal aid systems. there must be no place in the european union for class justice. equal access to justice for all, regardless of income. the right to a lawyer was already regulated by the eu in a separate directive. it was then logical to me that in those cases where you have the right to a lawyer, you also have the right to legal aid, if at least you cannot afford one yourself. i also think it is important that certain aspects of the recommendation, in particular the quality of legal aid, should also be incorporated into the directive. the majority in the european parliament supported this approach and so we entered the negotiations with the council with an ambitious stance. the vote in the council was rather reserved. despite the good efforts of the luxembourg presidency, the differences between the council and parliament remained wide. it was thanks to the great effort of the subsequent dutch presidency that we were finally able to agree on a text that was stronger than the original commission proposals, even though parliament did not get its way on all points. the main advantage is that legal aid has been provided in ordinary criminal cases, not in all cases, but in cases of deprivation of liberty and in certain invasive investigative methods involving the accused himself. the right to legal aid is guaranteed when the suspect is questioned and, in the case of european arrest warrants, there is a right to legal aid in the executing member state, but also in the requesting member state, if necessary. in all cases, the main rule is that an independent body is responsible for adding a lawyer. only in emergencies does the police have a role to play. member states should also ensure that there is sufficient funding for a high-quality form of legal aid. is the european union going to change a lot now? this will vary from one member state to another, but all member states will now have to set up a high-quality legal aid system for people who cannot afford a lawyer. for some member states, as the impact assessment we ourselves as parliament have carried out has shown, this will mean a considerable financial investment. in any case, it means that there can be absolutely no question of the tendency of governments in other member states where legal aid is available, such as in the netherlands, to cut back on legal aid. a large part of the rights incorporated in the directive are derived from the case law of the european court of human rights. the directive also explicitly refers to important un instruments, such as the principles and guidelines on access to legal aid, as a guide for member states' implementation practices. this strengthens the power of all these international instruments and makes it easier to monitor their implementation. all in all, i'm satisfied with the end result. i am convinced that in practice it will benefit many people who are currently deprived of a good lawyer. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the commission and the council.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. we are setting up a european minimum for legal aid and parliament - and i congratulate mr de jong on this - has finally joined the commission and the council. we have already had the right to a lawyer at the first interrogation enshrined in law, but what does that mean when you hear in a number of member states: yes, you have the right, but how you're going to pay for that right is a secondary issue. legal aid gives people with little money the opportunity to get themselves represented and that has made our rule of law a little better again. we also see some improvements in the implementation of the european arrest warrant. you now have the right to a lawyer in the country where you are arrested, but unfortunately not in all cases in the country where you are sent. yet this is a considerable improvement. we see too many cases of civilians being handed over for a minor offence or on the basis of a weak suspicion. and where you're at home in your own country, you can wait for a trial by just working through it and eventually get a call to report, you're put on probation in another country. we know that pre-trial detention is not carried out in the same way in all european countries. you're put on probation, and then you say goodbye to your job, your life, and maybe your relationship, and sometimes you say goodbye to your health. so yes, the greens are happy with this step, and now the next steps. i want to warn you of two things: further harmonization of criminal law must not take place at a minimum level of protection, because this would undermine national achievements. and a second point is: don't let money be the guiding principle. the cost of good protection of suspects and victims is often used as an excuse to avoid improving procedural rights. it is precisely at a time when european member states are being alarmed by terrorist attacks that we need a well-functioning criminal justice system. so we need to harmonize procedural rights at a good level. because if we don't, we risk the guilty getting released on administrative grounds and the innocent languishing in pretrial detention. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – i am always happy to give a colleague the space to make a point, but let me try to understand what you are saying. i think what we have here are minimum standards. what i am pleading for is not to lower our standards to a bare minimum. that is one thing. secondly, yes, legal aid is costly in countries that do not yet have legal aid, but it is much more costly for society to put the wrong people behind bars. so i would say that, in a european union that looks across the border to find criminals, we need to look across the border to provide people with legal aid.
the rapporteur. i think the debate showed that there is a great deal of agreement in parliament on the need for this directive. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her commitment to the beginning of the road we have travelled with the council. during the negotiations, its representatives certainly contributed at the crucial moments. the work is not done. we shall now have to see - the council is not here - what the member states are going to do about it. because you're going to be relying on good information about what's going on in practice to gather information. is it being done properly? is that quality really being monitored or are there going to be further cuts in some member states in the social security system, in legal aid? that requires an active commitment from the commission, an active commitment from parliament and also an active commitment from ngos that are fortunate enough to be there, such as fair trials international and others who are monitoring this. then for the future. there was one comment from the commissioner which i found a little startling, because it gave the impression of: now we're done with the criminal justice side of things. i think there is at least one area, but there may be several areas where we really need to go, and that is the area of pre-trial detention, of pretrial detention and the circumstances of it. i hear too many voices of people who have been transferred to another member state and then find themselves in rather humiliating situations. so i wholeheartedly support the call of a number of ngos and also of a group in parliament who say: now we must proceed with the following proposals. the route map is far from complete. i also count on the commissioner to give further details of the point in particular.
rapporteur. – mr president, the cross-party collaboration and the successful outcome of the negotiations with the commission and council sent three strong messages today: europe delivers, and it is stepping up its efforts to curb the trade and promotion of torture and death-penalty goods; trade policy helps strengthen human rights; and the european parliament played a decisive role in achieving this important upgrade and update of the legislation. so i would like to thank very much the shadow rapporteurs, as well as everyone in this house, for working towards the biggest majority we have seen on a trade-related issue in the current parliamentary term. this strong eu position and ep position allowed us to improve key points, despite initial reluctance in council. i am glad that advertising online for banned goods, and also trade fairs, will be illegal. this extends the ban on services facilitating this dreadful market of torture and death-penalty goods and services. i am glad we included the ban on transit via the eu for prohibited goods and that, in addition, knowledge-based transit bans will be in place for multipurpose goods. we also added the urgency procedure, which allows for rapid bans or controls on new products, and, to make the rules future-proof, we expanded the reach of the urgency procedure to cover all annexes to the legislation, thus enabling the commission swiftly to add new items to annexed lists of banned or controlled items if this is necessary. we will add law-enforcement standards, so that, when the competent authorities are looking at the supply of technical systems related to annex 3 goods, they must see that there is a provision promoting law-enforcement standards that respect human rights and contribute to the prevention of torture. another key element is the inclusion of several steps for better sharing of information. the updated agreement covers the possibility of the competent authorities sharing information with the national preventive mechanisms established under the optional protocol to the un convention against torture. an anti-torture coordination group will monitor the application of the rules, with parliament’s experts attending meetings on the preparation of delegated acts and the updating of annexes. we have made this eu regulation a baseline, and there is room for national measures. member states are permitted to adopt or maintain additional national measures that restrict certain ancillary services, such as transportation, financial services, insurance, advertising or promotion in relation to annex 2 goods. and, in order to keep the door open for possible further strengthening, we have asked that the commission, when reviewing the rules at the end of july 2020, should assess whether they should also include activities of eu nationals abroad. this is something that we in parliament requested, and i hope it can be included in the review. this whole update would not have been possible without the active involvement of civil society and of a number of people in the eu who care deeply about upgrading and updating our human rights record, and i would like explicitly to thank them as well. i would emphasise that we want to make sure we practise what we preach in europe, and that we have to make sure that all foreign policy instruments, including for trade, help to address the world’s most pressing human rights issues.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions, including commissioner malmström for her leadership across the board in her groups at the commission. together we have closed most loopholes, and we must ensure solid monitoring at the member-state level. it is indeed, as the commissioner said, hard to imagine the kinds of products and services that are offered at trade fairs and in online or offline catalogues. this must end. today’s update shows the eu leads in raising the bar globally to take concrete steps to end the death penalty and torture. the increase of torture and the death penalty call for such measures, from iran to saudi arabia or egypt, from china to the united states. we must push back and challenge these kinds of human rights abuses. in fact, we need more eu-wide leadership to push back against those who challenge the universality of human rights. today’s trade measures – and i hope they will be adopted with a large majority – will of course not in of themselves end the death penalty or torture. so we must see this step in sync with other measures and instruments the european union has and must use. we have to keep in mind when we do our work those people who are suffering from repression, violence, torture and the death penalty, often at the hands of their own governments. they must find in the european union an advocate for their freedom. today’s regulation is an important element to give meaning to the european union’s human rights agenda, and i hope for all of your support.
on behalf of the enf group. – (inaudible) ... what they want to do with regard to climate change. the eu has nothing to do with this, and the eu should not ratify this climate agreement. again, there are happy faces in this room because of this so—called historical landmark, and i understand that as the influence of the eu in this agreement is again evident. the agreements are one-sidedly detrimental to developed countries, the climate effects are not clear at all and citizens must again bear enormous costs. the elite are laughing here while rubbing their hands. they will benefit from these climate action plans, but the hard-working citizens in the member states will soon pay more for their electricity, their car, their heating, you name it. it is a shame. at the moment that the eu is proudly ratifying this agreement, i see only one bright spot and that is that the member states are free to fulfil or not fulfil this agreement any way they like, and that is a good thing.
in writing. ‒ on 5 february this year, an earthquake struck the ionian islands in greece, mainly the island of lefkada, the northern part of ithaca and kefalonia. the earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight were injured, and 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. there is considerable damage to infrastructure, buildings and cultural sites. greece has therefore also requested financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund. i voted for the funds to be made available from this fund because people who are affected by natural disasters are in great need of our help.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the availability of these funds because eu compensation for the financial consequences of the 2015 earthquake has already been provided in large measure by the hundreds of billions that the member states have deposited in the greek treasury and the billions of debt relief granted by the banks. the amounts transferred to greece by the taxpayers of the member states have not been implemented in accordance with any agreement reached with greece. according to the pvv, there is therefore no reason to believe that any funds from the solidarity fund will be used to repair the damage caused by the earthquake in the ionian islands.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failing european socioeconomic policy and short-sighted commercial interests. the case concerned the dismissal of 2 161 employees of microsoft and related suppliers in finland. i think this is a towel for bleeding, though. companies and the member states should come up with the appropriate support measures themselves, because now money from the member states is being pumped around, whereas a multinational like microsoft should have sufficient resources for a decent social plan. large companies are laying off their workers after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left out in the cold.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the provision of these funds because a global player like microsoft is not suffering from the negative effects of globalisation, but is itself a driving force behind globalisation. in addition, there is no longer a 'global crisis', a condition for granting subsidies. the fund will therefore, with the allocation of €5.364 million, only facilitate the elimination of jobs in a member state of the european union by an international company like microsoft.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failed european socioeconomic policy. the case in point concerns the dismissal of 1 556 ericsson employees in sweden. i think this is a towel for bleeding, though. companies, and the member states, should come up with the appropriate support measures themselves, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large companies are laying off their workers after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. ericsson has in recent years moved its production to asia, especially india. while ericsson doubled its staff recruitment worldwide, it is cutting staff in swedish branches. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left out in the cold.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the provision of these funds. the requirements of the european fund (dismissals to be the result of the global crisis and caused by globalisation) are not being met. the fund, with its allocation of eur 6,958 million, is simply facilitating the elimination of jobs in a member state of the european union by an internationally operating company such as ericsson. this has been demonstrated again by ericsson's announcement that it will cease all production in sweden and lay off another 3 000 people. i am sure that there will be another application for a grant for this purpose.
"blue card" question. what is it? when i hear mr balz, i hear the necessary doubt in his speech. are the greeks going to do it? are they gonna realize it? are they gonna deliver? then i ask him my specific question: do you believe in this approach, and why? i'll just go ahead and ask you a second question. is it not better to make a grexit and bring the greeks back to the drachma, combine it perhaps with a rescue programme where we partially write off the debt? is that not a far better, preferable approach?
i have heard the commissioner and i would like to believe it. i would like to believe that all the reforms are now being implemented, that we will finally have a realistic budget for 2017. i would like to believe that the privatisations will now be carried out. but i'm having a hard time with it because the track record is so bad. only 15% of the laws that have been passed have actually been implemented. we see that greece has dropped from 81st to 86th place in the world economic forum's global competitiveness index. we see that only a very small part of the privatisations has been realised. and then when we see that minister of infrastructure spirtzis just says that he hopes that the privatization deals will fail, that he says in the greek parliament: "these companies are so heavily in debt, nobody wants to buy them anyway", i'm very worried. i cannot help but stress once again that the commissioner must be on top of this, that we must not relax and that we must keep up the pressure to the maximum in order to achieve better results in the interests of greece. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i believe that agreements should always be respected, but there was also a sense of urgency in these agreements. first, certain things must be realized and then the next step will be in sight. so, as long as the agreements at the beginning have not been respected, the follow-up will not be.
there we go again. greece, yes, greece. hundreds of billions received, no deal fulfilled. they were bankrupt, they are bankrupt, they will remain bankrupt, but of course the commission will never say that. the greek people are facing a ruined economy, and every economist knows that the euro is the cause of this, but the commission will never say that either. if politicians were to face reality, this would never have happened, but then they would not be politicians, and the greeks know that better than anyone. demosthenes said 2400 years ago, "what a man seeks, he will believe". and the commission is also the easiest to deceive itself, and that is why, mr president, i say what the commission apparently cannot say: the euro has failed and therefore the eurozone must be dismantled and the netherlands must leave the european union. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. president. - i would like to reply to that. mr president, my colleague will tell you that the greeks were much richer before the crisis. however, the statistics also show that in the ten-year period when german real income rose by 0.7%, that of the greeks rose by 70% in a decade. that 70% was not real, it was based on borrowed money that was then hidden in the budget. and that's why it's not a realistic representation of things that greece was so rich back then. i'm sorry to hear that.
the situation in greece is becoming increasingly hopeless. six years after the first bailout, there is still little improvement. the debt is barely declining and the economy is still a quarter smaller than before the crisis. meanwhile, the population has been exposed to an extreme reduction in living standards. we have never seen such extremes in europe in peacetime. a quarter of the children live in poverty, a quarter of the parents are unemployed at home. in my opinion, this cannot go on. the sacrifices have been made. greece must be able to start from scratch and all that remains is a real reform of the economy, combined with debt reduction, with full restoration of all trade union rights and with substantial support programmes.
greece is the country of marathons, but it is now sprinting towards a budget surplus of 2%. the budget surplus is being made up by higher expenditure, in particular by the higher expenditure borne by the greek people. as my colleague agnes jongerius has said: the greek people can hardly bear it any more. there is no eurozone country with a 2% surplus and greece has to jump to 3.5% because if it doesn't, automatic cuts will follow. in the meantime, the debt burden is still weighing heavily on the greek economy and offers little prospect. so i would very much like to see the commission continue its work, including to reach an agreement with the imf, including on debt relief to give the greek people and the greek economy a new perspective.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group in 2004, many members of the european parliament had serious doubts about ms kroes as a candidate commissioner. kroes had become known in her time as dutch minister for her not unfortunate friendships with dubious businessmen. the dutch parliament had opened a conflict of interest inquiry, but it was not completed in time before she was back in office. in that sense, i was not surprised that kroes was connected to a shady enterprise in the bahamas, whose main task would have been to buy a piece of the equally shady enron. but it is serious, especially since parliament demanded in 2004 that kroes, as commissioner for competition, should no longer have any interest in any company. she made a solemn promise in this parliament but it now appears that she had failed to check whether there was any unfinished project anywhere. but kroes is going on. she's already gotten new jobs at merrill lynch and uber, among others. for the first job, she received conditional approval from the commission's ethics committee. the second job was no longer needed because the 18-month cooling-off period had passed. kroes can now lobby fully for that company and as former digital agenda commissioner she knows the way. it's a mess all by itself. i therefore ask the commission to make three specific points: 1. the abolition of conditional approval by the ethics committee for high-risk jobs and the reinforcement of that committee with fully independent experts; 2. extension of the cooling-off period to three years; 3. clear guidelines on what integrity and discretion mean for ex-commissioners, because it is clear that some of them have no idea or want to have any idea of that. finally, in both barroso's and kroes' cases, the commission must take them to the court of justice to have their pension rights taken away. these people no longer deserve an eu pension. they're already getting enough money from their shady boyfriends.
the brussels elite has fallen from its pedestal. that's been established. and if it hadn't been so sad, i might have laughed. because it's really nothing more than a sequel to the famous tv series dallas. you remember it. i'll walk you through the main characters. mr juncker is playing the perfect j.r. ewing and he doesn't shy away from the glass either. mrs. neelie kroes is the fake sue ellen and timmermans, the vice chairman, is the failed cliff barnes. if i mention these names, i'm sure you'll recognize them. but let us not forget that the taxpayer is paying for this brussels soap opera, and that is why i am proposing to put cameras in the offices in brussels and strasbourg so that the hardworking dutch people can share in the intrigue and the intrigue.
razed was neelie kroes in april 2014, when belgium banned uber. "show your anger!" she shouted in a blog. recently, it was announced that the same neelie kroes will be joining the advisory board of uber. commissioners must avoid any appearance of conflict of interest, and this also applies to former commissioners. that is bad for the european commission. that is bad for the image of the european union. last week it was also revealed that neelie kroes had concealed a position from this parliament. that's what the bahamas leaks showed. i therefore want to respond retroactively to the call 'show your anger!' and together with 45 other social democrats i have therefore lodged a complaint with the european commission about this behaviour and the adjustments that need to be made. i would therefore like to hear from the commissioner what the answer is to the complaint we have made.
on behalf of the ppe group it is the third or fourth time that we have spoken here today about the problems in calais. i am grateful to the commissioner for his overview and his efforts to solve this problem, but i must say that i think it is not enough on behalf of the ppe group. there is a great human drama going on there. there are currently more than 10 000 illegal asylum seekers in the french department. president hollande has said that he wants to solve it by 1 january 2017, and i would like to ask the commissioner, both commissioners - because i see that mrs bulc has now been informed - to also abolish the so-called jungle in conjunction with the french government. i know it's not just a french problem. there are illegal asylum seekers from all over europe, which is why the commissioner is responsible for this, but we cannot go on like this. the transport operators from all over europe are suffering terribly from these aggressive people who are desperate and trying to get to britain. that is why i am in general pleased with the commitment made by mr hollande, but i do hope that the european commission will also help france to solve this problem. finally, mr president, we are also dealing with brexit and the reliability of european transport. that's something we have to watch out for, too. there's a lot of transport to britain. it's mostly through the eurotunnel. it must be possible to do so in time and it is unacceptable that this should happen at our external border.
i have asked for this debate, mr president, because the situation in calais is completely untenable for everyone, for refugees, for local residents and for drivers. i held a meeting with my esteemed colleague, mr dennis de jong, in rotterdam last year and we asked dozens of drivers about their experiences there. there's a lot of guys in between, but a lot of them were scared to death to drive to calais, because drivers are threatened at calais. they get spat on, they get beaten. many loads of fruit and vegetables disappeared in waste containers after refugees pooped and peed on them. and then the driver is also fined €1,000 for having the stolen goods in his car. so we are talking about a european problem and the european commission must deal with it. not by sending a few letters to governments but by organizing a summit in a few weeks with all concerned to find a solution. then it's about the refugees, selection at the gate, resettlement of real refugees. that must be done now and at calais france and britain must work together to find a solution. take those refugees there. france must close the camp and ensure that no new camps are built along the channel, plus secure parking spaces, no more fines for honest drivers and a quick passage through customs. it is time to stop talking about this for years, because how many french ministers have been to calais and said: yes, it's very bad, we're going to end it now. and now mr hollande again. it doesn't work like that. so mr avramopoulos, it's up to you now to show action and not talk. we in rotterdam say, not words but deeds. announce results, not in the spring of 2017 but before january, and realize that by holding a summit with all stakeholders. i am not talking about words, commissioner, but action!
the situation in calais has become untenable. it is not sustainable for the thousands of refugees, it is not sustainable for the local population and it is not sustainable for the transport sector. i support the french government's plan to dismantle the jungle, but that does not mean a structural solution. to prevent new jungles in europe, we need a better european asylum and migration policy, european countries, member states, and european agreements that are implemented faithfully and quickly. solidarity is also needed. in this context, in the light of solidarity, i would ask the british government to take part in the reception of refugees from calais, and i am thinking in particular of the unaccompanied children who have family in the united kingdom. all member states, including the united kingdom, have a responsibility. then take the responsibility.
this debate comes as the french president has announced that he will close the camp before the end of the year. he said: i'm going to do it in a humane way so that the refugees can apply for asylum in a decent way. we shall of course keep him on his toes. but waiting until the end of the year is no longer possible for many drivers. i am surprised that the commission says: wait and see, early next spring there will be a letter from the commission on the transport situation. i think we should ensure that drivers, as long as their safety is at stake, can drive to calais by other routes without their bosses calling them on it. i don't think that ensuring your safety is a refusal to work. all drivers have the right to a safe journey, just as asylum seekers have the right to a safe procedure. i ask the commission to be more ambitious in protecting the very workers who are affected by the unsafe situation at calais.
it 's been said before: europe is emotion. and emotion can be experienced by traveling. that is the essence of the proposal we are discussing this afternoon. i am therefore grateful to mr weber for combining the ideas of many people in the state of the union. why should the nationalists and the populists be allowed to shout everything and we be allowed to say nothing? we are doing something about that today. it's got to be normal people. all those erasmus people will be there, but the middle management of europe must travel around to see what europe is. this plan is good for mobility. i agree with mrs harms: out of the planes, into the trains. that's good for the environment and good for mobility. the epp never puts a plan on the table without money. that, of course, is the crux of this debate: where are we gonna get the money? we shall find a solution in cooperation with the commission. but the railway companies are getting new customers, and these could be customers for life. so they can contribute a little bit. another limitation is that the card must be applied for. we're not gonna be giving out free cards all over europe. it would be most welcome if mr weber were sent a report on the trip afterwards. then i'm sure his e-mail box is completely full.
mr president, the council has increasingly become the bottleneck of european decision—making. we all understand, of course, that it is not easy to reach an agreement between 28 governments, but it is your duty to act and to move forward. not only european citizens have a right to expect determination, courage and vision from the council – so do the people in aleppo. i find it very difficult to explain to people in aleppo that europe is not acting because of treaty restrictions, national sovereignty and national electoral considerations. the council said that we need to end the uncontrolled migration flows. absolutely, but not by creating fortress europe, not by making shady deals with unsavoury regimes – of which we know there are more in the pipeline, and you call them statements rather than deals – nor by ignoring the explosive situation in lebanon and jordan, but by working speedily on the adoption of a fully—fledged community asylum policy. the commission proposals are on the table, and parliament is ready to work speedily. i would like to know if the council is willing to work with parliament to make sure that we have a package in place before the summer. you have shown urgency when it comes to passing security measures, and i would expect the same sense of urgency in adopting the asylum package.
the european council has again put the issue of migration on its agenda, and rightly so. migration is tearing apart the member states. it destroys our culture, our prosperity and our physical security. thousands of jihadists have come with the migration. these soldiers of allah are waiting like sleeper cells for the signal to launch devastating attacks in the eu. it is now also clear that these terrorist units have weapons of war. the european council must listen to viktor orbán. he recognizes the danger and he deserves our full support and imitation. therefore, the eu and the member states should take the following effective measures: frontex must stop being a ferry service to pick up jihadists and other migrants in north africa, the internal and external borders must be completely closed to this invasion and the invaded settlers must be returned without pardon.
a drawn-out feud over eastern ukraine and crimea, the blackmailing of the independent investigation into the downing of mh17 and the commission of the most heinous war crimes in syria: the cold climate of the cold war is back. the council will meet shortly to discuss relations with russia. we have seen in recent days that in aleppo crimes against humanity are being committed by the syrian government and the russian army. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. we can no longer stand by while this mass slaughter in aleppo is carried out by assad and putin. i therefore call on the european heads of government to put the people responsible for these crimes on an eu sanctions list immediately. the continuing search for dialogue is always necessary, but the time has also come to draw a very clear red line.
in writing. ‒ the sp abstained on this resolution. although there are good points in the text, there is a lot of reference to the europe 2020 strategy. we believe that the europe 2020 strategy, which is part of the european semester, is the very cause of the economic and financial problems in the member states, which make it impossible to invest in reindustrialisation. the european semester and the europe 2020 strategy are therefore not part of the solution to this problem, but rather an amplifier of the current problem, because countries do not have the freedom to intervene in sectors that are in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ the sp abstained on this resolution. although there are good points in the text, there is a lot of reference to the europe 2020 strategy. we believe that the europe 2020 strategy, which is part of the european semester, is the very cause of the economic and financial problems in the member states, which make it impossible to invest in reindustrialisation. the european semester and the europe 2020 strategy are therefore not part of the solution to this problem, but rather an amplifier of the current problem, because countries do not have the freedom to intervene in sectors that are in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against a european reindustrialisation policy because the location of an industry is highly dependent on its location. factors such as the investment climate, accessibility, the educational level of the population, energy prices and the legal labour supply are of primary importance. the eu is counterproductive in all these respects. this proposal, which again places responsibility on the eu, does not help.
madam president, it is a crying shame that we stand here again today and that the killing of innocent people continues. the suffering is immense. a small percentage of the total amount of the historically high numbers of refugees have reached europe. while many speak of a crisis here and the impact on our societies and politics is clear and we pay a high bill for humanitarian aid, it is hard to understand why, even in the light of this immense crisis, we do not see a common position in the council. especially now that us—russian contacts are at an all—time low, we, the eu, must step up. while hospitals, schools and un humanitarian convoys are bombed and starved, eu leadership to come to a negotiated peace is still lacking. the suffering and cynicism are unprecedented and we know who is responsible. i call on you, the member states, to adopt impactful sanctions on russia for their bombardments of innocent people against the un security council resolution. to mr obermayr, i would like to say that this is not a matter of bashing russia; this is a matter of russia bombing people, and we have to speak out. the un secretary—general has called aleppo ‘worse than a slaughterhouse’. worse than a slaughterhouse! what happened to ‘never again’? the council must also give iran a clear choice. stop helping assad’s killing machine or face the consequences. today, the leaders of france, the uk, italy, germany and the us meet on syria and berlin, but we need a common position of 28 countries. the world knows, mr assad knows and mr putin knows that a divided europe is a weak europe. it must end. we must show leadership in the face of this extraordinary suffering, or we will pay the price. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. i do not know whether you heard my statement clearly, but i called on eu sanctions, unity by the member states for sanctions on russia, and i also urged them to leverage their weight vis—à—vis iran to force it to make a clear choice whether to stop the killing machine of assad and their support thereof or face the consequences. i think my statement was clear, and it seems to be in line with what you are thinking, but we look forward to continuing this discussion. the most important thing is that the council has to stop being divided, show leadership and adopt a common position.
what has happened in aleppo in the last two weeks is nothing short of hell on earth. after the ceasefire broke down, the syrian government, together with the russian military, deliberately bombed civilians, shelled humanitarian convoys and razed hospitals. un secretary-general ban ki-moon spoke the following words earlier this week: the continuous bombing of aleppo is a war crime. the situation is worse than in a slaughterhouse. war crimes must be punished. justice requires that those responsible for the crimes in syria be prosecuted and brought to justice. in addition to continuing to look for ever smaller openings for dialogue, the eu must also draw a clear line. those responsible for these atrocities should be placed on an eu sanctions list immediately. i hope that the council will reach the same conclusion next week.
i have not quite understood the perspective which the council is now drawing up for our relations with the congo. we all understood that kabila wants to stay in power longer, that he is following the example of countries around him. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on the situation in burundi. i would therefore like to know what further prospects we have for action in relation to mr kabila. i heard mr demesmaeker speak of sanctions, and clever sanctions: the freezing of funds, the withdrawal of travel permits for mr kabila's entourage. that seems to me an incredibly wise move. i would also like to have the council's response to this. i would also like to stress once again that we must complete our legislation to combat the trade in conflict minerals as soon as possible. we are in trialogue with you and the european commission. let us strike while the iron is hot and use this quickly as a means of letting mr kabila know that we seriously believe his time has come. finally, mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased with the report. you call on the opposition to participate in the national dialogue. that seems to me a very difficult question at the moment. the fact that the catholic church, which is very important in congo, is not involved in a national dialogue is another reason why there is little or no hope of a positive response.
blue-card question. – for somebody who does not want to discuss abortion in plenary, i think it is quite funny that you just spent four minutes talking about it. the thing is, we hear the argument every time we debate this issue – whether it is about poland, spain or ireland – saying the eu has no competence in this area. then, i wonder, do you support the citizens’ initiative ‘one of us’, which is actually addressing abortion at european level? are you not applying double standards a little bit here, saying that we are not allowed to talk about this, but you are allowed to raise the issue of abortion because you are against choice? i would really like to understand.
mr president, and also to the colleague who spoke previously, i think a lot has been said in this room that has been pretty insulting to women generally as well. we learned today that, for the time being, the law seems to be off the table, but i would say that is no reason for celebration because even the current polish law on abortion is still the strictest in the european union and it still does not give women the choice. mr gericke, you say you are happy with the choices you made in life but you had a choice. i think every woman, every man should have that choice, including in poland. madam commissioner, i heard you say – and i only partially agree with you – that abortion is not an eu matter. it is true that abortion laws are made by national governments and national parliaments, but that is not to say that the european union has not to say anything. abortion and sexual and reproductive health rights are part of public health policies in the member states. we have competence in the area of public health policy. it is limited but it is there. i would call on this house to make sure that, in the next public health strategy, sexual and reproductive rights, including abortion, are included. this is also underlined by the fact that there is case law in the area of abortion. the strasbourg court has said very clearly that a total ban on abortion is a violation of human rights. we do have instruments, colleagues. this is not only about a debate on subsidiarity. this is on principles, this is on values, and those values apply also to polish citizens and that is why we are having this debate. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we are talking about civilisation here, where women – do you actually want to have the answer? if you just want to orate here, that is fine as well but then i will sit down. ok? i happen to believe – and apparently you disagree with me – that women are human beings and that human rights apply to everybody equally. i also think that women are perfectly capable of taking decisions over their own bodies and their own lives. i have said that in a previous debate, when we were talking about spain. if we think that women are capable of leading the united states or the imf, if we think that women should be entrusted with the responsible task of raising and educating children who are becoming people, then surely they can be entrusted with a decision – a responsible decision – over their own bodies and their own lives. that is what i’m talking about.
as co-chair of the transparency intergroup, i presented vice-president timmermans with a transparent plaque on 2 may to encourage him. at the same time, i handed him our ideas for a mandatory register. i think the plaque has been an inspiration, because the proposal for the interinstitutional agreement we are discussing now is a good basis. but of course, there is always room for improvement. i'll give you five points: vulnerable eu institutions, such as agencies, should be able to join the agreement and thus become full parties; the activities of lobbyists carried out at the specific request of the institutions, their members or officials should also be included, otherwise a huge gap would be created; complainants should be able to object to the rejection of their complaint, just as lobbyists can object to the exclusion from registration; the governing board should report regularly to parliament and the commission on its activities, and that reporting should be public; the commission has also proposed that fraudulent lobbying be investigated by olaf. finally, i hope that the negotiations on this proposal itself will also be transparent and open to input from all stakeholders. in this respect, parliament, and i am referring in particular to our vice-president for transparency, mrs guillaume, has a special responsibility. we know the council's culture of closure, so let us ensure that at least all the groups, including the transparency group, are involved in the negotiations.
author. president al-bashir is wanted by the international criminal court in the hague for crimes against humanity. but the man travels freely across africa and sits at the head of parties and parties. south africa, chad, uganda, congo, djibouti - countries that endorse the icc - let him walk again and again. - it can't be. this is something that our diplomatic services must firmly address. or are our diplomatic services talking out of their asses? is the european asylum crisis already leading to the khartoum situation? the better migration management project was launched in late 2015 to provide assistance and training to countries in the horn of africa to better monitor their external borders and deal with migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. people who are sent back to eritrea are in incredible danger. or are we talking about the pleasant cooperation between italy and sudan, which in august sent 48 potential refugees back to sudan? you're not going to tell me that after turkey, sudan has become a safe country? it is a good thing that the cooperation between the european union and african countries to curb migration has been named after the capital of sudan: the khartoum trial. i want to take the european delegation in khartoum at their word when they say that the sudanese 'rapid support forces' are not, of course, guarding the northern border on behalf of the european union to stop refugees. but i can imagine that the commander of the rapid forces, who has been trained by us in migration management, may not be quite so keen on that. and let 's face it . the afghan summit this week also shows that it is difficult to separate migration management from development cooperation. mrs. mogherini said , there is never a conditional link between development aid and what we do on migration. i'll keep her on it. this resolution therefore also calls for clarity on the use of funds in 'better migration management' in sudan. then we'll help that idea out.
author. the islamic law, the sharia, which sudan adopted five years ago october 2011, appears to be hitting the christian minority hard. i am pleased to see my former colleague commissioner malmström, whom i know as a dedicated former member of the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights. i would like to receive from the council and the commission a detailed overview of the current state of play with regard to the impact of the sharia on the christians in sudan. there is an extremely active eu delegation, so could you please say that i would like an answer to that, since i understand that you cannot give it now? how does this come about for the christian minority? to get a head start on the questions that are on my mind, because i have been reviewing documentation for this debate this week. for example: the destruction of churches has become a normal pattern in sudan in recent years. is this image correct? can you inform me of this in writing? the sudanese regime is pursuing a criminal policy of ethnic and religious cleansing against christians in south kordofan and blue nile. i would also appreciate and welcome detailed information on paper. mrs. malmström, i know you, a woman of her word. i would like to see documentation from your side, especially now that there is a special person - mr figel - who is concerned with religious freedom. i'd like to be informed. what do we see and what do we do?
author. – mr president, this debate and this resolution are the result of our commitment and our friendship with the thai people and it is because of this commitment and friendship that we share some of our concerns here today: concerns about the labour rights for migrants in thailand, concerns about the disproportionate use of criminal defamation laws, and concerns about the climate and the legal framework in which human rights defenders like andy hall have to do their work to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves. but it is not only about concerns today; it is also about acknowledging the steps that the thai government has taken in recent times and about encouraging thailand to continue and to accelerate those developments. yesterday, many of us had the opportunity to meet with andy hall. he is here in parliament today, so let us also take this opportunity to welcome him here and from this chamber applaud his determination and his passion to bring about real change in people’s lives. workers have rights. whether they are migrants or not, they have the right to safety and dignity at work. andy hall has the right to protect and to defend them, and we have a duty to help and support them.
in writing. ‒ with regard to paragraph 62: the sp supports the introduction of a financial transaction tax, but wants the proceeds to go entirely to the member states that levy the tax and not to be added to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the following paragraph 62: the sp supports the introduction of a financial transaction tax, but wants the proceeds to go entirely to the member states that levy the tax and not to be added to the eu budget.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, together with shadow rapporteurs from the committee on international trade – and i would like to thank them – we focused on the trade and investment aspects of eu-iran relations one year after the important jcpoa, otherwise known as the iran nuclear deal, which of course must be implemented. since then, several delegations travelled to iran to explore the potential, which in theory is huge. but both the iranian people and eu companies learned that doing business, in practice, in iran is not only a matter of lifting sanctions, and it is not as easy as it seems. the high levels of corruption, the grey economy, as well as terror financing but also the lack of a truly private sector, with up to 70% state-controlled, make it difficult to do business, and trade and investment must of course be done according to the law and benefit the population, which has suffered enough and continues to suffer. the human capital is iran’s most valuable asset, so imagine what is possible when development goes hand in hand with human rights and fundamental freedoms, when labour rights are improved – including for women – and when environmental protection is upgraded. we must bring iran under the rules-based system according to the financial action task force against money laundering and where possible explore the wto path.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it has been over a year since the nuclear deal was concluded, but of course it is better late than never to have the european parliament’s opinion as well. our group welcomes the successful lead by the high representative/vice president and her team – consisting mostly of females – and the success of eu common diplomacy and international cooperation at times when this is more necessary but most rare. i have shared my thoughts on trade and investment and the possibilities offered when the deal is implemented. so now let us focus with equal resolve on the many remaining problems in our relationship: human rights and fundamental freedoms, from the high levels of executions – even of minors – to the torture in iran’s notorious prisons. witness the lack of a fair trial for suspects and the general absence of equal rights for women, ethnic and religious minorities, and lgtbis – and the list goes on, extending to the lack of free expression for journalists, academics, artists, people in general and politicians with critical views. instead of making the lives of iranian people better, the regime spends billions on supporting the assad regime in its cowardice, murder and bombing of innocent people. focusing on our shared objective of fighting daesh cannot hide the real differences between us. the eu lists the military wing of hezbollah as a terror group; iran supports it. president, excuse me, it’s my understanding that i have 2.5 minutes. am i wrong? thank you, president. the eu lists the military wing of hezbollah as a terror group. iran supports it. the emphasis on these key topics was lacking in the report, and we found it important to strongly and unequivocally condemn human rights violations and the damaging role that the islamic republic plays in the region. now this is not, mr howitt, an attack on the nuclear deal, its implementation or you personally. it is merely a matter of differences of opinion and priorities, which i think is entirely normal in a democracy. my group calls on iran to be a part of the solution to the war in syria and – as we are also asking of saudi arabia – to halt interference in the affairs of neighbouring partners, recognise israel and stop denying the holocaust. we should work together where possible on the basis of clear benchmarks, and we need an eu delegation on the ground. our group sees opportunity to cooperate on environmental protection, on which what little civil society remains in iran is bravely pushing for more action. we believe that people-to-people contact through exchanges is key, but people must be able to return safely to iran when they have dual nationality. people-to-people connections also take place online. therefore, the emergence of a free and open internet in iran, one that is not nationally and centrally monitored and censored, is key for young people likewise to come out of isolation. i want to stress that it is time for a real step out of the dark, out of isolation, and that includes free and fair elections. our group seeks to balance this report and hopes that our key amendments will be adopted: otherwise, unfortunately, we will not be able to support this resolution.
this report is intended to provide an eu strategy for iran. how can this be done, however, if the leading political forces in the islamic republic of iran are completely ignored? think of supreme leader khamenei and the iranian revolutionary guard. mr howitt, that is an incomprehensible omission! this report is one big plea for 'business as usual' with iran. the biggest beneficiary of this policy, however, will not be the population but the iranian revolutionary guard, because of its dominant and elevated position in the country's economy. the destabilizing, revolutionary role of this instrument of power, par excellence supreme leader khamenei, in the region and beyond, is evident. again, an incomprehensible omission! i have to say that i am not in favour of this. this report omits the iranian drive for destruction of the jewish state of israel. it also conceals iran's denial and even ridicule of the holocaust. my amendments, mr rapporteur, you have brushed aside, you have rejected them: a little less! for the third time: an incomprehensible, immoral omission from the record. i therefore ask you to support the amendment tabled by mrs schaake, which i myself have signed. madam president, this report does not set out an eu strategy for iran. it's political fiction. it is an invitation to the eu and its member states to continue on the path they have taken, the hopeless detour towards tehran. the damage and the shame for the european union and for the supporters of this report will, i fear, be no small one!
in writing. slowly but surely, we have seen the priorities of european foreign policy shift in recent months. whereas the protection of human rights and the strengthening of the rule of law are important principles in our cooperation with third countries, the focus now seems to be shifting more and more towards the prevention of migration. i therefore call on the commission and our foreign ministers not only to look at our foreign policy through anti-migration glasses but to show solidarity with the countries in the region which have taken in millions of refugees. for example, europe must fulfil its humanitarian duty by providing the most vulnerable refugees in those countries with a safe and legal route to the eu through large-scale resettlement. not as a reward for the country concerned, but out of the bitter necessity.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very pleased that we are having this debate here today because we have travelled quite a road since we decided a year and a half ago to draw up this legislative initiative report. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and my co-rapporteur on the committee on constitutional affairs (afco). these are not just hollow words; i think that we have had a very fruitful and constructive cooperation, and the result of that cooperation is before you and will, hopefully, command a large majority when we vote later today. i note that the only party that is actively campaigning against my report is the front national, which i find reassuring in a way. the european commission will today present its working programme for 2017. commissioner timmermans always says that the european commission has to be big on big things, and i very much agree with that. but i do think that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are a big thing. we europeans have something to be proud of: we have been leading for many decades in the area of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, so we have a heritage that we can be proud of. so let us now take the opportunity to further deepen and strengthen that culture of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the european union as a whole, because the eu is more than the sum of member states. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (or drf, if i may coin a new abbreviation in eu jargon) is key to the functioning of the european union. it is key to policy areas like police and justice cooperation, and asylum and refugee policies, but also the internal market and, as we have seen recently, international trade. we are all aware of the so-called copenhagen dilemma. in other words, when a country wants to join the european union, it has to meet the highest standards – but member states of the european union cannot be held to those standards. we do not really have sufficient means to enforce our standards of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, but we do feel that the need for a mechanism for upholding drf is growing. one of our colleagues, viviane reding, who was a commissioner at the time for that purpose, took the first steps to the creation of the rule of law framework, which is now triggered by mr timmermans. we have seen the creation of the rule of law dialogue in the council, the creation of the friends of the rule of law group in the european council, and mr timmermans, when you were still a minister of foreign affairs in the netherlands, you yourself called for the creation of a rule of law mechanism. we have the european commission rule of law framework, and that is very important. i think it is very good that you have triggered it in the case of poland, but that same case also illustrates the weaknesses and the shortcomings of that mechanism, and therefore the european parliament has proposed the drf pact. the principles, i hope, will find their way into the proposals that the commission will, hopefully, put forward. the principles are that the pact, or the mechanism, should be applied to all member states equally. they should all be assessed on the same basis, and also the eu institutions. it should be a permanent mechanism and not crisis-driven, as we have now in the case of poland. there should be ongoing monitoring. it should be objective, evidence-based, and not politically motivated, and it should also be building on existing instruments and be realised under the current treaties. finally, our mechanism foresees close involvement of the national parliaments. i am very much looking forward to the debate, and i very much hope that the european commission will join the big majority in the european parliament and come forward with proposals that build on the report that we will adopt today.
mr president, like you and most of my colleagues, i received this letter last week: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the letter concludes that the vote will be published this afternoon in our own member states. this is undoubtedly intended as a kind of threat, but it is a nice piece of transparency which the anonymous letter writer could have taken as an example. i shall be very happy to explain in my own member state why it is so important that fundamental rights in the eu are made available for discussion in a structured, objective, constructive and balanced way and why they must be taken out of the scare-mongering and taboo sphere of this writer. let 's face it . if we as the european union are to play the role of champions of fundamental freedoms on the world stage and in our immediate neighbourhood, we must first of all take care of our own affairs.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for a very interesting debate and for all the support. i would just like to briefly say to that side of the house (which has largely disappeared incidentally): i have heard a lot of hysterical language about dictatorships and imposing values, tyranny, submission, treason. i would just like to point out that 28 countries decided to join the european union voluntarily. they signed up to the treaties voluntarily and the treaties include article 2. for those who have read the articles: article 1 in the treaties basically says ‘hello, everybody’ and then article 2 is about what we are all about as a european union – a community of values. the irony is that we have endowed the european union with the instruments to enforce all the other policy areas: competition policies, police and justice cooperation, foreign policies, etc. but our core values are not protected by instruments that are sufficiently strong to make sure that the values are upheld throughout the european union. i very much concur with what commissioner timmermans just said: it is all about the objectives and not so much about the means. but i do hope that i misunderstood when i thought i heard you say in your initial presentation, commissioner timmermans, that you think that the existing tools are sufficient, because there i disagree and i think that has been echoed by everybody in the house. i think that we all expect that the mechanism you have triggered against the polish government is not, unfortunately, going to lead to an improvement in the situation in poland. nobody expects that by the end of this week the polish government is going to say: we are going to follow up on your recommendations. i would have hoped that they would, but they are probably not going to do that. so we do need a mechanism that has a preventative arm that applies to all the member states. i think that is really a key principle. also, in response to your question: yes, i do think it should be on a regular, preferably an annual, basis and not be incident-driven, because if it is incident-driven then there is the inherent risk that decisions to intervene will be politically motivated, and we want to avoid that. one final remark about the panel of independent experts: i hear people expressing concerns about this. i would recommend people read the text because it is very clear that the lead is with the commission. the commission will adopt the annual report but it will do so in consultation with the panel of independent experts that will be partly nominated by the member states and partly by this parliament. finally, i would like to remind the commission, and colleagues, that it is not as if we are reinventing the wheel. we already have the justice scoreboard, the corruption report, the corruption and verification mechanism (cvm) for bulgaria and romania, the media pluralism monitor, the fundamental rights report, the reports on access to documents, the schengen evaluations, etc. these mechanisms also include panels of independent experts and country-specific recommendations, so we are not inventing something new. i look forward to the commission’s proposal. i hope that we can have a constructive dialogue, as we have had inside this house in the political groups, the same dialogue between the institutions and come up with something that will really serve democracy, the rule of law, and fundamental rights throughout the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his update. commissioner, i very much welcome your intention of giving us a monthly update. on the evaluation, i also very much appreciate your emphasis on the need for evaluation of the implementation, and indeed the pnr case demonstrates that. although i personally voted against the directive, i think it is extremely silly to pass laws which are not then implemented. i also wonder where the rush came from, if now the member states are not acting six months after the adoption. i think we should also get a bit more information about the – in total now – eur 130 million which are being spent on pnr. but we should not only evaluate the implementation but also the effectiveness. if you compare it to the war on drugs, that has failed dramatically. is the war on terror any more successful? i do not know, because we have passed so many laws and spent so much money, and the threat levels seem to be going up, not down. we seem to get less of a grip on the phenomenon, not more. we should also evaluate the impact on fundamental rights and the rule of law, as you have mentioned. but i would also like to see included in your monthly updates the need for democratic and judicial oversight and more transparency and accountability, because i think that is sorely lacking. while defending our democracy and rule of law against terrorist attacks, we seem to be throwing the baby out with the bathwater. so i really hope that you are going to focus more on that. three final remarks. first of all, on prevention: i also welcome your statements on that, because i think that so far we have done a terrible job on prevention. i think we have made matters worse by creating deep divisions in society. secondly, we all agree on the urgent need for more information-sharing. but, as i said in the previous debate, information-sharing is a lot more than just interconnectivity. that is the technical side of things, but we now need to actually share information, and not on a voluntary, ad hoc, random basis, but systematically. finally, in the report that this house adopted in 2011, we stressed already very heavily the need to invest a lot more in what they call humint – human intelligence, people on the ground. i think that the situation in belgium and the investigation that they did has shown that the real problem is insufficient capacity. so, rather than spending zillions on megalomaniac it systems, we should be investing in people on the ground.
first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner king on his appointment. i am glad that we now finally have a commissioner in the european union who is concerned solely with security. that's an important signal about how high on our priority list this is. i have three points, the first of which concerns passenger name records (pnr). i am genuinely surprised and disappointed that 11 member states have still done absolutely nothing to implement the pnr directive. you'd think the need for that would be obvious by now. i'm afraid not i would therefore ask the commissioner whether he thinks it possible to say at some point to the member states which have already made great strides: we'll start first and the others can join when they're ready? a second question: in your hearing, mr king, you said that if the british government decided to opt out of the new europol mandate, there would be unwanted gaps in european security policy until new agreements could be made. are you at any rate preparing for this by ensuring that the european commission does not create these gaps and that the 500 million citizens can count on complete security? one last point: criminal organizations in the border region. we see more and more that criminals still know how to find our borders, even though they have disappeared on paper. we need to work together more, share more information and do more work on cross-border seizures and asset freezes. i would also like to call for the possibility of having crossborder research teams on a permanent basis to deal with these structural hazards. i'd like to hear your opinion on that.
mr president, i do not think it was clear to everybody whether we were voting on the third part of recital a or the final vote on the resolution. can we take the vote again so that it is clear to everybody?
in writing. ‒ the european commission considers that supplementary legislation on a subject falling within the competence of the union automatically meets the subsidiarity test. the pvv disagrees with this, as do the parliaments of sweden and lithuania. the pvv therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions are spending even more on their own security, while in no way taking seriously the growing insecurity of open borders or acknowledging that islam is the inspiration for modern day terrorism. it is only right that the institutions should be subjected to the same insecurity as the citizen on the street. the pvv voted against this budget.
in writing. ‒ although i voted in favour of this report, i do not support the proposals concerning the office of the european prosecutor. nor do i support the call for mandatory rules establishing that convicted persons should not be eligible to stand for election or to work in or for the public administration. this type of measure should be seen as an additional sanction, normally only imposed for a limited time by the court. otherwise, the convicted persons are punished twice which is a violation of the ‘ne bis in idem’ principle.
in writing. – although i voted in favour of this report, i do not support the proposals concerning the office of the european prosecutor. nor do i support the call for mandatory rules establishing that convicted persons should not be eligible to stand for election or to work in or for the public administration. this type of measure should be seen as an additional sanction, normally only imposed for a limited time by the court. otherwise, convicted persons are punished twice, which is a violation of the ‘ne bis in idem’ principle.
in writing. ‒ the pvda delegation abstained from voting on the report on 'human rights and migration in third countries'. we are of course in favour of protecting human rights worldwide, and eu migration policy must not be in conflict with international and european law, such as the 1951 refugee convention. however, this report is inconsistent because it does not seem to differentiate between migrants and refugees. we think this distinction is important. in order to monitor support for the protection of refugees driven from their home countries by war, violence and persecution it is important that there is also an effective return policy for migrants who do not have the right to asylum, and especially those who have come to europe for economic reasons. this lack of nuance has made it impossible for us to agree to this report. we are in favour of the call to take human rights into account in migration policy, so the most obvious choice was to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the pvda delegation abstained from voting on the report on 'human rights and migration in third countries'. we are of course in favour of protecting human rights worldwide, and eu migration policy must not be in conflict with international and european law, such as the 1951 refugee convention. however, this report is inconsistent because it does not seem to differentiate between migrants and refugees. we think this distinction is important. in order to monitor support for the protection of refugees driven from their home countries by war, violence and persecution it is important that there is also an effective return policy for migrants who do not have the right to asylum, and especially those who have come to europe for economic reasons. this lack of nuance has made it impossible for us to agree to this report. we are in favour of the call to take human rights into account in migration policy, so the most obvious choice was to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the pvda delegation abstained from voting on the report on 'human rights and migration in third countries'. we are of course in favour of protecting human rights worldwide, and eu migration policy must not be in conflict with international and european law, such as the 1951 refugee convention. however, this report is inconsistent because it does not seem to differentiate between migrants and refugees. we think this distinction is important. in order to monitor support for the protection of refugees driven from their home countries by war, violence and persecution it is important that there is also an effective return policy for migrants who do not have the right to asylum, and especially those who have come to europe for economic reasons. this lack of nuance has made it impossible for us to agree to this report. we are in favour of the call to take human rights into account in migration policy, so the most obvious choice was to abstain.
in writing. ‒ as one of the richest continents and one of the main drivers of climate change, europe has an extra responsibility to take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the party for the animals believes that europe must break its addiction to fossil fuels. a healthy future lies in a sustainable, decentralized energy supply. an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is not appropriate. the strategy focuses on the liberalisation of the energy market, while the negative effects of (liquid) natural gas and gas storage are not mentioned. as a resident of the province of groningen in the netherlands, i know that the consequences of gas extraction can be disastrous. every week we face earthquakes caused by the extraction of gas. this causes a lot of damage to buildings and unsafe and unsaleable homes. natural gas is not a harmless transition fuel. we need to shut down the gas line as soon as possible. that is why i shall vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy to spend money on gas storage undermines the freedom of member states to determine their own 'energy mix' guaranteed by the treaty. the budget is an integral part of that freedom. the pvv voted against.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation supports the principle and purpose of the mechanism but ultimately abstained because it contains a number of provisions that run counter to the functioning of the dutch legal system. the new agency cannot, as far as we are concerned, (co-) determine what is a european and what a national competence (interpretation of article 2 tfeu). we are against giving direct and immediate access to the european court to all natural and legal persons. we want to maintain the normal course of justice through the national courts. finally, we do not support the idea that only one third of the ep's votes can put a legislative process on hold for the sake of a preliminary examination by the court.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation supports the principle and purpose of the mechanism but abstained from the final vote because it contains a number of provisions that are contrary to the dutch legal system. the new agency cannot, as far as we are concerned, (co-) determine what is a european and what a national competence (interpretation of article 2 tfeu). we are against giving direct and immediate access to the european court to all natural and legal persons. we want to maintain the normal course of justice through the national courts. finally, we do not support the idea that only one third of the ep's votes can put a legislative process on hold for the sake of a preliminary examination by the court.
in writing. ‒ given the need to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, both inside and outside the eu, i voted in favour of the report. however, eu initiatives in this field should not undermine the jurisdiction of the european court of human rights and the other work of the council of europe in this field.
in writing. ‒ given the need to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, both inside and outside the eu, i voted in favour of the report. however, eu initiatives in this field should not undermine the jurisdiction of the european court of human rights and the other work of the council of europe in this field.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation supports the principle and purpose of the mechanism but abstained from the final vote because it contains a number of provisions that are contrary to the dutch legal system. the new agency cannot, as far as we are concerned, (co-) determine what is a european and what a national competence (interpretation of article 2 tfeu). we are opposed to granting direct and immediate access to the european court of justice to all natural and legal persons in all cases. we want to maintain the normal course of justice through the national courts. finally, we do not support the idea that only one third of the ep's votes can put a legislative process on hold for the sake of a preliminary examination by the court.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i was much more privileged than that because i received it 13 minutes before the start of the debate, so i had much more time than you did to prepare for this debate. i would like to start by noting that the council, except for the honourable gentleman here, seems to be absent for the debate, although you refer specifically to the bratislava declaration in the document on the priorities, so i think it would have been proper for the council to be present in greater numbers. i always find this kind of debate very difficult because we talk about matters or issues that we all find very important, but for some reason i get the feeling that most citizens do not really care that much. i commend the european commission for trying to cut red tape, focus on the essential, etc., but i wonder if that is really what citizens are lying awake over. repealing a law for energy labels for vacuum cleaners, fine, but is that really what is keeping people awake at night? i think that people are terribly concerned about the way that the european union is working and one of the things, i think, that should be at the top of the list is transparency and accountability. you mention it in the document and yet i know that in practice, when we ask for documents, when we want to get information – i am not talking about you personally, but within the commission, the council, and yes, the european parliament too – there is still a culture of confidentiality and secrecy. if we really want to regain the trust of citizens, that is something that we should address and should, i think, really put at the top of our list. secondly, better law-making, in my view, is not only about cutting red tape and repealing legislation that is considered unnecessary. it also means passing legislation that will stand up in court. now we have seen safe harbours and data retention scrapped, and as regards pnr and canada we do not know. we see that the council is now making all kinds of agreements with turkey and other countries, and these seem to have no basis whatsoever in the treaties. we do not know who anyone is accountable to; we do not know who is exercising oversight. that is not better law-making: it is terrible law-making. it is neither democratic nor transparent nor accountable. so if we really want to regain trust, those are the issues that we should be focusing on, and that includes ourselves: we can be critical of ourselves rather about subject headings.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for giving an overview of the commission work programme for next year. indeed, i also only received it 30 minutes before 3pm so i also had the privilege of a long reading time of more or less half an hour now. looking at what is on the table and what first vice-president timmermans was explaining to us in plenary, as to how we are going about things, i think we should just scrap this self-congratulatory tone. we are in a serious situation and still there are not so many people who feel involved and feel that the european union is there on their behalf. i think that is still our biggest concern, for us all. we want a european union that works for our citizens, for our consumers, and i think a lot of things need to be improved there. that is also why i get a bit tired when people say we have to focus on the big things: europe should be big on the big things and small on the small things. well let’s just conclude today that we all agree on that. the political discussion is what you call big, and what i call big, or what someone else calls small, which i call big. that is a political discussion. let’s not hide as if a commission work programme is a technical analysis. this is about priorities and political decisions, on where the european union is focusing, and there are good things. if i look at what the commission wants to do on the social pillar side, i think that looks good, but, how exactly is that going to look? here i would like to subscribe to what my colleague from the s&d group was saying. on the other and, if i look at the trade part, it is just business as usual, it is just continuing: ‘we are doing a great job so we continue’. well sorry, but maybe some people have noticed that there is a huge debate on which direction the eu is going with its trade deals. we are not discussing trade deals more. ceta stands for comprehensive economic and trade agreement. it is more than just a trade deal. that is why you are now having discussions with national parliaments. that is why there is now such a huge discussion, and the commission is saying, we will just continue with it because it is working fine, which is just turning a blind eye to what is going on outside. i think that should be mentioned far more in the work programme. the last point is on refit and this is a question to the commissioner. i know there will be some discussions also on ecodesign and i know that you are a very good person who can convince people, so can you convince people also within your commission how important it is to reduce our energy use? that is a big thing. with the vacuum cleaners we have saved energy equivalent to four coal-fired power plants. that is good for the environment, that is good for our economy, and it is good for our self-reliance on energy. that is what the ecodesign directive is about and i am sure that you can convey that message, rather than what a lot of tabloids are doing in portraying this as a regulatory burden, because i as a consumer do not mind what the rules are, but if in the end if i buy appliances that are much more energy efficient that is a good thing for us citizens.
mr timmermans is familiar with the cry 'without transport everything stands still'. i'm thanking him for the piece that i was able to scan quickly. much attention is rightly being paid to the decarbonisation of the transport sector. we are aware of mrs bulc's proposals. these are now included in the work programme. we as the european parliament will be working very hard on this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer to this question. i would therefore like to draw attention to the general economic significance of the transport sector, the social issues - there is a lot to be done about social dumping in the transport sector - and border control for the report of this meeting. schengen is more difficult to transport. the calais problem will, if it is to be resolved, be reasonably settled with the french government this month. but the transport sector is also a major source of innovation, and in particular of competition with the americans in the field of the self-driving car and connected cars. these are all issues that need to be addressed here. finally, the imo and the iko. but we will discuss that further with the trade union commissioner.
the juncker commission came up with the idea of the social pillar during the course of this year. that social aaa rating is indeed a good and important principle, especially in this day and age. but if we look at the commission's work programme, we do not find much of it. it remains with brief references to possible initiatives. but the idea was to anchor our social model in the european acquis and to guarantee that there would be social security for all europeans and that all europeans would also be entitled to a living income in all member states. there is a dutch expression: to promise much and give little makes the fool live in joy. i think we should prevent that. let us make good on that aaa promise to the people of europe. that is possible, but the commission will have to come up with concrete proposals for the social pillar.
every parliament in the world has a comment on the general budget every year. depending on your political colour and your degree of blindness to reality, you have a comment or two. because the result is disappointing, or it's not quite what was intended, or there's a better use of the money. but there is one exception in the world, and that is the european parliament. this parliament has decided in committee that no expenditure can be cut! everything seems to be perfect, nothing is wasted. so no more touching! that, mr president, is a sign of the mental laziness of a committee on budgets which does not do its job and of the conviction that everything the eu does is well done. and of course, a widely held idea in this parliament that taxpayers' money is free. mr president, that money is not free. ordinary people have to work their asses off for it before it gets taken away. the eu is wasting money like water and acknowledging that is a first step. but that is a step which this parliament cannot seem to take.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, minister: let me make one point. you brought back the backlog from eur 25 billion to some eur 3.9 billion now. that is an enormous success, but my reflection today is that solving is one thing, but prevention is another. this is what brought us in the committee on regional development (regi) to an initiative to look deeper now, because now we have the first results of the partnership agreements and the new programme and we can see exactly what will happen in 2018, 2019 and 2020. we cannot go back to the member states and say that they have to pay more money in later years. now you are getting money back from the decommitments, and the net payers book in this money. so getting interest from our citizens needs a sustainable approach, and that is why a resolution is now being prepared in the committee on regional development which will be brought to the plenary at the end of this year or the beginning next year. i would like to invite the commissioner to come and debate in depth what is really happening. it is a late start, but the programmes will be there and the bills will be there. i thank you very much if you want to accept this invitation for this investment policy – one third of the eu budget: cohesion.
the eu budget will be higher in 2017 than in previous years. this time it's up 4.4%. the institutions are invoking new priorities, including the need to boost the economy with public spending, cleverly labelled as investment. the migration crisis is also a problem which, understandably, requires sufficient resources. but does prioritising not automatically lead to a higher budget? is it not reasonable to reduce non-priority expenditure? the european court of auditors has advocated this thematic concentration. we find very little of that in the budget. the european commission, like most eu institutions, has implemented the agreed staff reduction of 1% per year. the european parliament pretends to abide by this, but makes an exception for various categories of staff which are growing in size. the fact that the 3.4% increase in the budget is covered up by the veiled language in the resolution does not give a good idea of how the majority thinks it can be packaged. unfortunately, such tricks give the impression that the eu institutions are not prepared to make reforms that citizens can identify with. something the british have no doubt come across in the past year. the union must not maintain the image of being irreformable if it is to be forward-looking.
a deal is a deal and rules are rules. if we agree that we are going to put our books in order and that we need structural reforms to compete globally, then we all have to do that. if member states do not comply with this, it is bad for the european support, but especially for those countries themselves, because you are actually passing the bill on to your children. in that sense i agree with what commissioner dombrovskis said about investment. but i do want to give you a heads up: investing is different from spending more. i have recently seen, for example, a member state buying extra trains which it does not really need, just to keep a company in distress in its own country running. that's not an investment to me. that is simply more spending and perhaps even a form of state aid. i would therefore urge the commissioner to continue to look very critically at everything that is understood by investment.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for the constructive work we have done in the european parliament. but i would also like to make a brief statement on our position as the alde group, because trade brings prosperity but is under pressure in every possible way. the debate is conducted with a lot of rhetoric, without looking at the content. since the 1970s we have been assessing the risks involved in importing plants from third countries. we call that an open import system. this is a healthy balance between protecting against plant diseases and protecting our important commercial interests. as early as may 2013, the european commission wanted to address weaknesses within the current system without jeopardising the open import system. the european parliament wanted the same thing in april 2014. but the outcome of the negotiations now puts this in jeopardy: strict rules and vaguely worded criteria allow the prohibition of the import of plants and plant products from third countries without a sufficient risk assessment. in other words: we can be left to the arbitrariness of member states which block imports for political reasons. this is unacceptable! that is why i have tabled an amendment on behalf of the liberals in the european parliament to reject this agreement. traders in ports of import such as schiphol and antwerp will also face administrative burdens and higher costs. unfortunately, tight borders will not keep plant diseases out of the eu completely, nor will they prevent them.
i also speak for my colleague werner kuhn. as politicians, it's our job to take care of the people. so that also means that we are working on people's health. most citizens eat far too much of the wrong kind of fat, the so-called industrial trans fats from, say, cookies. the consequences are clear: the risk of developing heart disease is increased by the risk of developing obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease. the european commission and the food industry must therefore act quickly: a limit of 2%. i should now like to warn against the attempts by some groups in this parliament to denigrate natural, animal trans fats from normal products such as butter and milk. you're wrong. in fact, recent research has found that some trans fats in meat and dairy, as well as in human breast milk, have beneficial medical properties. american nutritionists and the world health organization confirmed this in 2015. of course, everything in moderation and in natural proportions, including our healthy european cheeses and meat products. healthy nutrition in a proper diet with the knowledge of today and the experience of yesterday. that is why i shall be voting against paragraphs d and e tomorrow, as will probably the whole cda group, because they say that natural fats are just as dangerous as industrial fats. and, commissioner, you don't want that to happen, do you?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there seems to be a recurring theme in all the interventions, and that is the total inability of the council to take any kind of decision up to now, but i will come back to that. first, on ceta: the alde group wants ceta to be salvaged, and if more time is needed then more time is needed. it is not the date, but the result, that matters. however, we cannot unpick the work that has been done, because trade is essential for our prosperity, and the credibility of the european union – as has been said by others – has been severely damaged. the winners of this episode are not the walloon farmers or the walloon entrepreneurs; the winners are china, russia and other countries, because they will get to set the standards, not europe. some parties in this house are actually welcoming the veto by wallonia because they are against ceta, but that is a very dangerous kind of opportunism. welcoming a veto when it suits your purpose will boomerang, because tomorrow a veto will be used against your priorities. the ceta episode exposes a much bigger problem, as i said: the weakness of the council. the eu cannot continue like this. if we look at the list of topics on the table, we have: sanctions against russia – blocked; the ukraine agreement – jeopardised; ceta – blocked; refugee relocation – blown out of the water; the decision on article 50 with the eu – kept dangling for nine months, and now one of the countries is threatening to veto the budget. we cannot continue like this. the eu is like a three-engine plane with one engine completely broken down. it is still flying, as the other two engines are still working, but it cannot stay on course until the council engine is fixed. mr tusk, please ensure that the european union will not undergo the same fate as poland in the 18th century, when the polish parliament was completely paralysed by the ‘liberum veto’, allowing every single nobleman in the parliament to block a decision. as a result, poland did not become greater; it became irrelevant. the council has to take responsibility for the european union as a whole and it has to do so soon, because not only will our own citizens tire of the inability of the eu to respond to the big challenges of today, but europe is rapidly making itself irrelevant as a global actor. that has an impact and it has already been mentioned. the victims of the same inability to take decisions are the people in syria. if the eu fails to decide on sanctions against mr putin, we lose any leverage we may have to force him to stop the bombing. we need a political transition urgently, and that means that we have to be able to put pressure on mr putin. victims are equally the refugees, and i am actually a bit surprised to hear both the council and the commission be quite jubilant about the successful refugee policies, when the united nations just yesterday said that 2016 is the deadliest year so far. more people have drowned in the mediterranean than any year before. how can you say this is a success? how is it that the council can still look at itself in the eye in the mirror and say this is a success? mr tusk, the council – the member state leaders – have a duty to end the paralysis, a duty towards the eu citizens and a duty towards the world.
if ceta is the blueprint for how the european union negotiates its free trade agreements, then we better stop today than tomorrow. is it part of the blueprint that the president of parliament takes over the negotiations without any mandate? is it part of the blueprint that parliaments are hardly given any time to discuss the treaty in depth? is it part of the blueprint that we do not clarify essential issues such as the legal values of the interpretative declaration, the compatibility of investment protection with the european legal system and the question of how exactly the powers are distributed? is it part of the blueprint that the negotiations take place behind closed doors with business at the forefront and citizens and ngos far behind? is it part of the blueprint that we are giving away democratic control of our regulations to the business community through the arbitration system, through the pre-cooking of our rules and now again - as mr verhofstadt and alde propose - by excluding national parliaments when they do not do what business demands? if ceta is the blueprint for our future free trade agreements, then we should be ashamed to call ourselves a democratic institution. stop the ceta!
blue-card question. – there is something that bugs me about many of the statements that have been made on this side of the house. you are all welcoming the veto by the wallonian parliament and, in doing so, you actually disregard democratic decisions that have been taken in other countries. what kind of a democrat are you if you say that the wallonian parliament – which is indeed democratically elected, as mrs le pen said – but so are the other parliaments? all the 28 member states have democratic institutional arrangements that you seem to completely deny.
the eu summit on 21 october did not produce the results expected. this eu is a complete fiasco and i repeat, frontex is a towing service for illegal immigrants from islamic countries. it has to stop. the open borders are a party for terrorists, for smugglers of people and weapons and that must stop. the economic dictatorship of brussels is plunging the citizens into deep poverty. this has got to stop! i call on this commission: restore the safety of citizens, expel all invaders from the eu, stop foreign funding of mosques, close national borders. i call on this commission: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, but must be able to take part in the peace process. i say to mr juncker: the netherlands should not ratify the ukraine convention, but mr juncker should listen to the will of the people and step down.
madam president, president tusk said that last week’s council was not a crisis meeting. well, i believe the lack of common positions, even in light of the worst crises – war and the migration it causes – is a crisis; a crisis of political leadership that does not escape our citizens. trade may be the next victim and the eu’s ability and credibility to negotiate agreements at all is on the line. regardless of whether the socialists walloon cliffhanger ends in a last-minute solution, a lot of damage has been done. the world is watching this stumbling and i wonder whether anyone is looking at this bigger picture and the longer term impact. what is clear is the need for more engagement with ngos and citizens by those giving a unanimous mandate to the commission and the council, a mandate that is the logical consequence of leveraging the single market not only for global economic gains, but also to raise the bar of standards. it is the council – member states individually – that has to mitigate the negative consequences, but i hear very few leaders explain this. i think criticism has had too much space because of an absence of leadership. if you do not qualify that as a crisis now, please do not wait until it is, and do not let cooperation with canada be the reason for it.
increased vigilance, tighter controls at sea, hermetically sealed borders and the designation of all migration as illegal; that is how the european council approaches the refugee question. whereas peace and security, the protection of human rights and respect for the rule of law have been central to our foreign policy, the focus seems increasingly to be on one dimension, namely the deterrence of migrants. last week there was talk of further implementation of the refugee agreement between turkey and the eu, but the heads of government failed to emphasise the original objective. the deal was to trade the illegal and dangerous routes for an airlift. the airlift for refugees has not yet been achieved and eu leaders have now even neglected to mention it in their conclusions. if we as the european union want to show that we take our own values seriously and are a reliable partner for third countries, then it is high time that we fulfilled our own commitments.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the draft general budget of the european union for 2017. the pvv is seeking to reduce european union spending. any savings are returned to the member states under the treaty. this is more beneficial to the taxpayer than any other eu expenditure.
in writing. - the pvv voted against. the ep has decided in committee that no budget line can be reduced. everything seems to be perfectly spent. the pvv considers this to be a sign of mental laziness and believes that it reflects the conviction that everything the eu does is done well and that taxpayers' money is free. the pvv cannot support this waste of taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the mff mid-term review. the ep calls for more flexibility in and between eu budget headings. such flexibility exempts the european parliament from setting policy priorities. all political objectives are therefore equally important and parliament does not have to make choices. this flexibility gives the ep the legitimacy to avoid budgetary discipline. in addition, it undermines the veto of member states over revisions. the pvv cannot support the resulting waste of scarce resources.
in writing. - this part was adopted without a vote. the pvv, however, is against the text because the obligations it imposes are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
i would like to congratulate mr lehne on his appointment as president of the court of auditors. it is a pity that we have to say again that too many mistakes were made and that no explanation of approval could be given. i think we all realize that that's bad for the image and that we need to find ways to deal with it. some say that it is all about mistakes and that you should make it clear that the irregularities can be very small things. you could have made a mistake, forgotten to return a form or something. when i think of how that's gonna look to the civilians... when they file their tax returns, they may make mistakes, but they do have consequences, and they are generally not easy. i also do not think that the same small mistakes can be made year after year, especially when it comes to tenders. i have three specific proposals for improvement: the first revision of the funds. concentrate them, stop pumping around, that'll prevent a lot of unnecessary business. secondly: require member states to issue a national auditor's report. and thirdly: treat recurring mistakes as fraud and don't always believe in good faith.
i would like to compliment the members of the european court of auditors, because they are the rock in the middle of the sea of waste. i would therefore like to call on them, on behalf of the taxpayer, to continue this work - with perseverance, with courage and with courage. but i have a less cheerful message for my colleagues in the large groups - the epp, s&d, ecr and alde groups - who have been so-called very critical once a year for 21 years, and on every other day of the year they blindly draw up every budget they are given. president, that is the hypocrisy that is destroying the eu - and i am not at all against it - and that is why the dutch taxpayer is massively cheating on every eu spending and policy. [the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for your question. i'm not talking about your quality. i 'm talking about your principles . you're denying the taxpayer. you've been doing that for 21 years and you'll keep doing it. you will be bringing your own demise, and we will see that for years to come. [ the speaker shall reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. sir, thank you for your question. i've been here two and a half years. i've seen enough of this place. i've been through enough. i have read enough and i have always voted against the things that are driving the dutch taxpayer crazy and costing the dutch taxpayer a lot of money. you didn't, and you're reminded of it every day. look at the polls. look at the brexit. look at all the referendums that are held. that will vote you and your establishment out of office in one fell swoop.
how can the eu help to ensure the continued presence of the christian and shiite minorities in northern iraq after liberation from the barbarism of is? to this crucial question that was going through my mind, i received a crystal clear answer last night by phone and by mail from erbil, from the region itself, or rather: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages of the palestinian people. the eu should press for fair political representation of the christian shia minority in northern iraq at national and regional level in iraq. independent local government councils for the various minorities are the proposed and, in my view, the most appropriate instrument for this purpose. urgently, the eu is pressing the iraqi government to change recent discriminatory legislation against non-muslim minorities. for example, why should only a non-muslim be allowed to change his religion? the applicant shall provide the applicant with a copy of the application form.
ladies and gentlemen, fallujah, ramadi, mosul - these are the names of cities that have already been conquered by isis or where the fighting is still going on at the moment. of course that is a good thing, but the experiences of fallujah and ramadi teach us that military success alone is not enough. that is why i welcome the words of the commissioner in that regard. the question is: what's our plan after that? there is little or no such plan, neither in iraq nor in the international community. the big question, of course, is: if that common enemy, isis, is defeated, will the rivalries between the various factions in iraq and the tensions caused by foreign interference come to the surface? i fear so, when i look at a recent report by amnesty international, which already points to serious human rights violations by the government army and by shiite militias. much of the focus in our debates is often on the tension between sunnis and shiites, the major groups in the country. but the small minorities in iraq are in danger of being completely crushed. the number of christian minorities has fallen from 1.5 million in 2003 to between 200 000 and 300 000. in a resolution adopted in february this year, the european parliament spoke of genocide by is against these christian minorities. how will the european commission and the high representative follow up that resolution and ensure that the political plan with iraq is implemented, with particular attention to those small minorities?
the battle for mosul is now entering its second week. more and more villages in the vicinity are being liberated from isis, but the terrorist group still holds iraq's second city. at the same time, not only is is being encircled, but also the one million civilian population. thousands of people have already fled and an unprecedented influx of refugees is expected in the coming days. another humanitarian disaster if we don't get there in time to help. the €50 million the eu has made available for humanitarian aid in mosul is a good start, but it is also vital that a strategy is developed to provide civilians with safe shelter. and with the situation becoming more dangerous by the day, there is urgency.
in afghanistan, women have few rights, young men are being recruited by the taliban and daesh, and entire provinces are not under kabul's authority. echo, our emergency relief organization, is warning of a humanitarian disaster this winter. and with that country europe is making a deal! it 's a kind of turkish deal: elusive but very far-reaching. and if it quacks like a duck, swims like a duck and looks like a duck, then it's a duck! this joint way forward on migration is a readmission agreement and the european parliament has the right to give its consent to it. then why don't you just put that proposal to us? if afghanistan wants it and the european union wants it, can it not be settled simply by a proper democratic decision-making? now that you're not, you're just starting to suspect that something's not right here. what's also not on the hook is how we're funding this. the commission intends to use part of the money for the reconstruction of afghanistan to reintegrate asylum seekers who have been expelled from europe. that 's not allowed . there are rules for that . development money should be used for development cooperation and not to fund our repressive migration policies. why are the afghans agreeing to this? i don't think that's the answer either. they pull in all directions on the short end, right? more people, less money. this deal will further destabilize that country and it's the number one time the west has helped to break it down.
it is a good development that the eu is increasingly working with other countries to shape migration policy. but the way in which a cooperation agreement with afghanistan was concluded behind closed doors earlier this month is not a beauty contest. without any communication or consultation with the european parliament, a joint declaration was drawn up between the eu and afghanistan. the text of the declaration also seems to focus disproportionately on the return of rejected asylum seekers to afghanistan. what is missing is how the eu will contribute concretely to peace and security in that country, so that people no longer have to flee. it is necessary to have an effective return policy for those who are not entitled to asylum in europe, but in the case of afghanistan, caution is warranted. only 21 percent of asylum seekers are still rejected from the country. let us not forget that most of the people of that country are entitled to international protection and deserve our solidarity.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, during the coup attempt on 15 july 2016, cnn türk’s ankara bureau chief, hande fırat, entered into our living rooms through our tv screens all around the world. in her hand was an iphone. president erdoğan was addressing the nation through facetime. media plurality played a crucial role in preventing the coup plotters from succeeding in their attempt to illegally take over democratic institutions in turkey that night. let that not be forgotten. in the last years, media freedom in turkey has been under great pressure, but the level of the crackdown the turkish journalists are facing under the current state of emergency is unprecedented. not only were 150 media outlets closed and 2 300 journalists fired in the last two months, but 99 journalists and writers were also jailed, with no charges presented against most of them. this brings the number of media workers detained on charges, believed to be related to their work, to at least 130. this is the highest number of jailed journalists in europe. that is not a cool list to be heading, especially not for an eu candidate country. in the european parliament, we attach great importance to press freedom. one of this year’s candidates for the sakharov prize is turkish journalist can dündar. one year ago, we also had a debate about the freedom of media when the ‘zaman’ newspaper was closed down. in the joint resolution that we will vote on tomorrow, all political groups are united in their call on the turkish government to immediately release these journalists; distinguished journalist of proven integrity, including former editor-in-chief ahmed altan, columnist şahin alpay, and well-known novelist aslı erdoğan, are being punished without due process through a long period of pre-trial detention. these people did not participate in the coup and the long period of pre-trial detention serves no public good. it seems the journalists are being punished purely for the opinions that they held, rather than for any incitement to violence or actual violence. the events of last night show that the curtailment of free speech in turkey is not limited to journalists only. the co-mayors of diyarbakır, gültan kışanak and fırat anlı, were detained yesterday. if democratically elected politicians are no longer allowed to freely express their opinion, then who can? to conclude, we understand that turkey is going through a difficult time and people are traumatised by the deteriorating security situation, both inside the country and surrounding it. however, these threats can only be curtailed by strengthening democracy; by strengthening the rule of law, and by getting back to a normal situation. i hope, for all the people in turkey, that this time starts in turkey sooner rather than later.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, turkey is a key country and a long-term partner for us europeans and in nato. and as someone who has always defended accession, even against the current of public opinion, these are painful times. painful because those who attempted the coup did no service to turkey’s democratic future whatsoever. they have rightfully been strongly condemned. painful, because the aftermath of the coup attempt has led to mass arrests that have taken place and have led to the centre of european societies and opinion, traditionally the most in favour of good relations with turkey and of accession, to turn away from turkey’s european future. i find that people simply do not see it happening anymore. press freedom and the position of journalists are a key reason for the political middle in europe to worry and to fear that turkey has taken a turn, not to return – a path of no return. this house, thankfully, has consistently voiced its concern and condemnation of the cracks in the rule of law, the lack of separation of powers and the violations of human rights and, particularly, press freedom and internet freedom. and even though the post—coup environment has exacerbated the pressure and has seen the emergency measures being adopted, the banning of books, the arrest of journalists and the restrictions of press freedom and the stifling of oppositional voices has been systematic. the gülen movement, now accused of plotting the coup but previously a key ally of the erdoğan government, was instrumental in creating an environment of fear, together with ak party politicians. a climate in which critics were silenced, trials were unfair and the gap between the letter of the law and its actual implementation grew and grew. as i said in the beginning, turkey is and will remain an essential partner for us and we must act in the interests of all its people. despite the low point that we see and that, frankly, is very disappointing, despite the bleeding of hearts, both in europe and in turkey, of those who hoped that turkey would move towards the eu, we have to continue as europeans to focus on what is really important in our path forward and focus on the rule of law and human rights, and, particularly, not be silent because we want the migration deal only. press freedom should be on the top of the european agenda.
conscientious, careful, independent journalism is of great social importance its repression causes enormous damage to a society. yet, that is what is happening in turkey today. as a former journalist, it hurts my eyes and my heart to read on the turkey purge website that as many as 130 journalists are currently being arbitrarily imprisoned. this debate shows that we are not abandoning them at all and fortunately they are also supported in other ways within the european union. quality newspapers open their columns to turkish colleagues as guest writers, whether or not they are active from their own territory. for example, i follow with great interest and pleasure the weekly letters from istanbul to bülent mumay in the frankfurter allgemeine. i would recommend it, ladies and gentlemen, because it is against the turkish media's equal treatment. and the eu must also fully guard against this equalization.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the discharge for the budget of the european council and the council. the pvv takes the view that it is not within the european parliament's competence to discharge the budget of the european council. the national parliaments of the member states will deal with this. the european parliament's withholding of discharge is therefore fine. the pvv can therefore understand why the council feels that it does not have to abide by the ep's budgetary rules. but that doesn't mean the pvv approves the budget.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the discharge for the budget of the eniac joint undertaking. the pvv takes the view that whatever the use made of the budget by agencies such as eniac, the european union does not add value to research budgets. research can be financed by the sovereign member states themselves without any problems and researchers can decide for themselves when and how they enter into cooperation with other (foreign) research institutions. the pvv therefore considers that there is no reason to support or finance eu agencies.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the discharge of the artemis joint undertaking. the pvv takes the view that whatever the use made of their budget by agencies such as artemis, the european union does not add value to research budgets. research can be financed by the sovereign member states themselves without any problems and researchers can decide for themselves when and how they enter into cooperation with other (foreign) research institutions. the pvv therefore considers that there is no reason to support or finance eu agencies.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the discharge of the iter joint undertaking's budget. the pvv takes the view that whatever agencies like iter spend their budget, the european union does not add value to research budgets. research can be financed by the sovereign member states themselves without any problems. iter has not produced much of a result for the billions of euros spent on fusion research. the pvv therefore considers that there is no reason to support or finance eu agencies.
in writing. the vvd is against unilateral nuclear disarmament and only agreed to the non-proliferation resolution because it does not advocate unilateral steps. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market.
in writing. ‒ the vvd is against unilateral nuclear disarmament and only agreed to the non-proliferation resolution because it does not advocate unilateral steps. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the (joint) motion because we do not want to issue visas to people coming from third countries, including islamic dictatorships. the european voluntary service opens up borders to the whole world and thus also offers jobs to terrorists from war zones including syria, thus triggering a new flow of immigrants.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the motion for a resolution (rule 170 (4)) replacing the non-legislative motion for a resolution a8-0250/2016, as education and youth policy is an exclusive competence of the member states. and that 's good too . at national level, a member state can use youth policies and available resources in a more relevant, effective and coordinated way, according to its own priority.
this year marks exactly 100 years since daylight saving time was first introduced. it was a german idea during world war i and it was just about saving on coal. the regulation of summertime is now a european competence: we're going to go over that. we introduced it during the oil boycott by the arab countries to save energy. meanwhile, it turns out that the whole energy argument doesn't add up. it's out of date. several studies show that this arrangement saves little or no energy, but causes many disadvantages, such as and then we are talking about human sleep disorders. this has been scientifically demonstrated by various experts here in this group or in this parliament. the biological clocks are getting totally out of whack, and we're all dealing with it. it's a social jet lag. children should be up an hour earlier in the morning and elderly people in nursing homes should be put to bed an hour later. delaying the time often makes parents and children more tired, and family life suffers. sleep disturbances occur with all sorts of consequences: in the united states, the number of people who are sick is increasing. other problems include missed appointments and the damage of old clocks by the tinkering with the hands. the industry also has to adapt machinery to new times; i am thinking of the bakers and the signals from the transport sector. what is true of man is also true of the animals. and then i think about dairy farming, because not everyone has a milking robot. in addition, the clock's reversal leads to more social problems: morning commuters drive longer in the dark, which is dangerous for traffic. evening fillies ride more in ozone heat, which is bad for the climate. more and more countries are therefore deciding to stop moving the clock: russia, turkey and japan. they're not in the game anymore. to save energy, we can insulate homes better, install more solar panels, or have cars indicate actual use. the time has therefore come for the european union to move the clock for the last time after a hundred years. stop this unnecessary business. we must listen to the criticisms of the citizens and this affects every citizen. i am sure that will help to make our europe a little more popular with the citizens, and that is what our european commissioner frans timmermans, who is dealing with this, wants too, is he not? our commissioner of health is always talking about prevention, so we should be doing this, right? we don't have to sit in a meeting for hours. there's only one question left: we are not going to vote for the amendments. as far as i'm concerned, for summer time.
the gue/ngl group supports the green group's request with full conviction. ceta is a large and far-reaching agreement with far-reaching implications for our regulation, our decision-making, our legal system, the precautionary principle and our economy. the investment court system (ics) in particular is a highly controversial part of the treaty. a public consultation in 2005 received 150 000 responses to its predecessor, the investor-state dispute settlement system (isds), of which 97% were strongly critical. some of those errors have been corrected in the investment court system, but in essence ics is the same system as isds. this has been argued by a number of leading academics, including canadian professor gus van harten, and has also been demonstrated in a study entitled 'investment court system put to the test' by a number of leading ngos. they have shown that the most contentious isds cases can still be brought under ics with the same or worse outcome. it is true that the legal service of the european parliament has said that it does not expect any problems with ics, but on the other hand there are letters from the european association of judges and the deutsche richterbund that contradict that. we need to be able to talk about this.
the euro is a giant on muddy feet. from the top, that stainless steel sculpture from luxembourg, germany and the netherlands still looks nice, but the further you go down, the more clay you find. there have been attempts, mr president, to strengthen that image, but, strangely enough, by adding more clay. for example, the maintenance of the crumbling structure has been totally neglected. last week, heavily indebted countries were given further deferment to take reform measures. a disastrous decision, made of mud. inflation also remained irresponsibly low with many negative effects, for example on pension funds. president-elect trump has already had a more favorable effect on inflation in the past month than the european central bank's qe program in the past 20 months. the current approach to the problems in the eurozone increases the risk that the image of the euro will one day collapse with a thunderous blow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for doing a very good job and ensuring a compromise that will indeed be supported by my group. as the previous speaker said, this is a very important topic for citizens. this is about everyday products that they use. everybody has insurances, loans, mortgages, pension savings, investment accounts, etc., but we see that only three percent of the market – three percent of the potential – is being used and that is worrying. but i have to say that what worries me even more is the lack of ambition and the lack of urgency – just look around the room – because, even if the report is very good, we shy away from the taboos. i also note that the commission had initially planned to come forward with an action plan in september and now the talk is about next year. i understand that some people are afraid of rapid developments – fintech was mentioned – but this is reality. this is what is happening and, as long as we sit on our hands, we will be overtaken by other parts of the world. if i look at the level of investment by the united states and china, this overtakes the european union by far. the european union is fragmented into 28 national markets. we are weak and not attractive for investors. i get very worried when i read in the newspaper that a major european bank is actually investing eur 20 million euros in fintech in china. it should be the other way around. we should be attractive enough for chinese investors to come here and develop our own services. europe has the potential to become the hub for retail financial services but, if we do not act more speedily, with more urgency and with more ambition, then we are going to lose the race because, colleagues – or those of you who are still around – this is not necessary for multinationals; they will find their way anyway. this is, however, urgently needed for consumers and smes, because they do need the european union in order to eliminate the barriers. alde and the green group have tabled amendments and i very much hope for the support of the epp group and the s&d group, because we do not think it is enough to make noble statements here about the objective of eliminating barriers, maybe sometime next century. we need concrete deadlines and we need concrete objectives. that is why we hope that these amendments mentioning the deadlines will be adopted. finally, it is a pity that, as usual, the council is absent – the council representing the member states – because we all know that the biggest obstacle of all is national governments protecting their national champions. so where are they? even the biggest eurosceptics are always saying how important the internal market is. the government leaders are always saying how important the internal market is but, when it really comes down to it, they are actually blocking the opening—up of the internal market, doing a big disservice to their own citizens. so i hope that the commission will come up with a really ambitious action plan as soon as possible.
we are no longer living in an era of change, we are living in a change of era. and that's especially true when you look at the financial sector, because all of the new technologies, from big data analytics to robo-advice to blockchain, you name it: all the new things coming together at the same time these days is changing the landscape tremendously. this will make it possible for many products to become cheaper, better, faster and, i say to mrs anneliese, also more accessible to many people. so there are enormous opportunities, because the main objective that we have all set here is to create jobs and economic growth. to do that, we must be able to compete internationally. we need a sophisticated financial infrastructure for that, too. to that end, this report, and i congratulate mr ludvigsson on that, can provide an important impetus to ensure that we are innovation friendly and at the same time ensure consumer protection and, of course, also keep an eye on the systemic risks that are present in our entire financial system. we have to find that balance between ourselves, because as my colleague in the field has just said, there is a tremendous amount of investment in this all over the world. if we're not careful, we're gonna fall behind in this area. we are doing our economy a disservice, but above all we are doing our citizens a disservice, because they are very keen to be able to play a part in the world. you need those upgrades to be able to do that.
in the time of the financial crisis, we have seen a lot of banks around the world go into trouble and we have had to bail out banks with taxpayers' money. we had to do the same in my country. we certainly don't want to go back to that situation. that is why it is very good that the capital requirements for these banks have been increased, because banks simply have to be able to hold their own. but what we are seeing now in the basel committee is that standards are being set at the international level, where everyone is treated equally while the situation is not equal. because, as has been said by other speakers, our banking system is very different from, say, the american one. if you look at the situation around mortgages for example, then in the netherlands, even at the height of the housing crisis, there was hardly any loss on mortgages. so it doesn't make sense to treat them in the same way as mortgages in america, which have caused a lot of problems there. i am therefore very pleased that we as a parliament can together give a strong signal that we do not want the way the basle committee is now proposing, because our entrepreneurs have had a very difficult time in recent years in getting credit. if we were to apply these requirements again, they would be dripping from the rain. so, as far as we are concerned, vice-commissioner dombrovskis can, in football terms, with a straight leg, represent our interests in the basel committee and take care of them.
the agricultural sector and smes are very concerned about the future lending of the basel iv standards. of course, financial stability and a robust banking sector with sufficient equity are paramount, but there is a fear that the proposed rules will have serious repercussions on this real economy. the agricultural sector in europe and the netherlands is currently going through a difficult period, partly because of the low milk prices and the russian boycott. the agricultural sector, especially young farmers with a lot of land equity, often have to take out a new mortgage, among other things to comply with animal welfare, the nitrate directive and the climate agreement. that's why they need a continuation of their mortgage. the future of many farmers depends on the granting of transitional credits. the same is true of our construction industry, which is coming out of a deep valley. citizens should continue to be able to take out a mortgage to buy a house. that is why the european commission cannot remain on the sidelines. there is a possibility to use key instruments such as the juncker plan, and this is also suggested in the report by cees veerman of the task force on the future of the agricultural sector. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to say: what you should remember from my speech is that we have to prevent a credit crunch. economic growth, the stimulation of the labour market and the survival of a strong agricultural sector in europe require this. europe stands for peace, but also for sufficient food, sufficient credit to continue producing food, including by family and family businesses. what is a liveable countryside without a healthy farm, with a healthy bank, of course?
the imf's global financial stability report is a heartbreaking read. europe has too many banks, too many weak banks and then a few too big banks. there are also banks struggling with non-repayable loans. there is no reason for european arrogance or complacency, but rather for haste. the resistance from the financial sector is not surprising and not convincing. in their story, rules always get in the way of growth. in their story, attracting additional capital is always a stumbling block. but let's face it, a well-regulated and well-capitalized financial sector is a prerequisite for economic growth. it is therefore good that this resolution, with thanks to the rapporteur, sends a balanced signal, highlighting the specific difficulties that may arise in the european market, but also showing that there must be robust internal models and that banks must also be sufficiently capitalised. it has happened too often that banks have paid dividends but have not had their capital in order, with deutsche bank as a clear example. they've paid out another $5 billion in dividends since 2008. so i welcome this discussion, i welcome the fact that the important work of basel is being discussed openly in this chamber, but let us not be arrogant or complacent.
we have one coin. that requires a policy. i am also glad that the commission is looking at the impact of budgetary balances on the euro area as a whole. is it stabilizing or is it not? the commission also concludes and recommends that an additional eur 50 billion should be spent. this shows that the commission has taken a new course, and rightly so. investment expenditure is necessary for economic growth, now and later, and certainly the netherlands and germany have room for it. it's a new course that not everyone is taking. wolfgang schäuble has already written a letter of resignation and seems to be ignoring that advice, despite the historically low interest rates. but he's left alone. he's becoming more and more like the old greedy scrooge in dickens' christmas story. it is christmas soon and i still hope that wolfgang schäuble and the hawks will come to their senses.
a lot of the most terrible things in this world are tied to money laundering and can't even be done without it. whether it's terrorist financing, drug trafficking, human trafficking, you know, they all use laundry detergent. it is therefore very good that mr maurel has written this report and that the commissioner has made this proposal, in order to at least take a step towards exchanging information between tax authorities on this matter. we must do everything we can to stop money laundering. it must be done in an international context. the working conditions for the commission have not improved in this respect, but i would still like to call on the commissioner to show in the panama papers that it is necessary and to do his utmost to be able to tackle this issue internationally, because we cannot do it in europe alone. however, there are other shortcuts i would like to point out. i am very pleased that my amendment, which extends the scope of the directive to the so-called virtual currencies, has been adopted by the econ committee. after all, there are now so many billions in circulation in digital currencies like bitcoin, of which, for example, there are more than 10 billion in circulation this year alone. so you want to prevent criminals from using the anonymous bitcoins and all kinds of other currencies to jump the gun again. after all, it's not just about the bitcoin. you also have litecoin, peercoin, namecoin, quarkcoin, zcash and even, you wouldn't believe it, dogecoin. the name alone should make the eyebrows frown. i therefore ask the commission and the council to take over this.
in writing. the vvd abstained in the final vote on the report on the effectiveness of development cooperation, because it is not the eu's job to oblige member states to spend 0.7% of their gdp on development cooperation. in addition, member states should remain free to use development cooperation funds to address acute crises such as the refugee crisis. the vvd supports proposals to spend development money more effectively by ensuring greater transparency and by fighting corruption in developing countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, on friday the world was an eyewitness to babies being bombed out of their incubators, and as the last hospital in aleppo was targetedly pounded we must ask ourselves: why were we, those who promised ‘never again’, unable to prevent or stop these crimes against humanity from happening? it fills me with unspeakable shame. the syrian war has now lasted longer than the second world war, and the council still does not have a common position even while the impact of the war in syria continues to shake the eu at its core. it is beyond comprehension, and particularly prime minister renzi’s veto, preventing sanctions on russia for the role that putin’s army plays in bombing children, is a disgrace. putin has taken maximum advantage of our absence. so we do need an eu strategy, not on paper but one that leads to meaningful action, otherwise our negotiating position or persuasion towards third countries is far too weak. and while the eu and member states are the main humanitarian donors, two thirds of syrians do not have regular access to water and six million children need life-saving assistance. we are clearly not doing enough. starvation is used as a war crime; look at lebanon to draw your own conclusions. declaring the statement with turkey on migration as the holy grail will not solve our problems, especially when the eu is not delivering its part by ensuring relocation. my group calls again for sanctions to be put in place against russia’s role in committing war crimes, and the eu should lead broader efforts towards accountability and ending impunity. that includes ensuring that the hundreds of thousands of people being tortured and killed in prisons in syria are not forgotten. let there be no confusion: the hunger, despair, torture, bombardments and repression are causing people to flee. assad’s barbarism is also directly leading to radicalisation.
under the umbrella of the russian air force, the islamic republic of iran is steadily expanding its military influence on the syrian battlefield. under the supervision of the islamic revolutionary guard corps and its willing lebanese instrument, hezbollah, separate brigades of tens of thousands of shiite pakistanis and afghans are now operating there. there is also talk of the shi'ization of syria. the geopolitical and hegemonic objectives of the ayatollah regime in iraq, syria and lebanon are easy to guess. so too is the acute alarm among sunnis in the region. not to mention the state of israel, whose imminent destruction is constantly being proclaimed by political and military leaders in iran as a follow-up to the operation in syria. high representative, how do you view the scenario of a regional escalation of the syrian battlefield and the escalating role of iran in it? is prevention with european input still possible? i am extremely pessimistic and i think the iran deal sadly has a part to play in that.
"blue card" issue. like the other group chairmen in this parliament, mrs harms started off very well by telling us all about the disgusting acts that mr erdogan has been committing recently. this has been repeatedly emphasized by previous speakers. but then it's like, "oh, my god. we want dialogue and so we're going to freeze. what dialogue is there? mr. erdogan is deaf to europe, he does his own thing, he arrests who he wants, he pushes out minorities. i was in mardin as much as you were, and i was told in mardin: this man must go. so my question is: why not end this accession?
madam president, the turkish population is going through a difficult time. there is a serious threat of terrorism, both from isis and pkk, the war next door in syria resulting in three million refugees and, on top of that, the coup attempt last summer. unfortunately, the actions taken under the state of emergency have further aggravated the situation. many people live in fear for their loved ones, who have been dismissed or arrested without any legal proceedings taking place even four months after the coup attempt. tens of thousands of families are directly affected by the purges, including 145 journalists and 10 of our colleagues – parliamentarians – who are in jail. we acknowledge the importance of good eu—turkey relations and remain committed to keeping turkey anchored to the eu. during the last decade it has been this parliament that has consequently each year called for the chapters on the rule of law and democracy to be opened because we take the process seriously. the current situation, however, leaves us with no other choice than to call for the temporary freezing of the accession talks. it does not mean we should stop our dialogue, but we have come to the point where a meaningful negotiation on eu integration is not credible. we are not abandoning turkish citizens – they believe in the same values as us – nor are we abandoning the vibrant civil society that is today under so much pressure. our doors remain open. we are merely reacting to what is happening in a country that says it wants to join the european union. if we take our values seriously, we must send a strong political signal and we expect our european leaders to do the same in december.
commissioner timmermans should have been here, because he recently said that there are indications that gülen is involved in the unfortunately failed coup attempt in turkey. he refers to an american report. on 16 august, turkey stated that it had not provided the us with any evidence of gülen's involvement when it requested his extradition. then where does this claim come from? does that report exist? does the commission agree with mr timmermans? mr timmermans may have received this information through inovo bv? that is the turkish akp lobbying firm co-founded by alde mep marietje schaake, which pays tens of thousands of euros to influencers and decision-makers for advice. what is timmermans' involvement in inovo bv? if timmermans cannot make this claim, he should resign, because let's be honest: the only time you say that is when you want to justify the grip on erdogan's dictatorship, when you want to keep turkey in the eu at all costs and when you want to maintain visa liberalisation per se. it's got to stop.
madam president, over the past days a lot of people in turkey, who are desperately seeking a democratic anchor to hold on to, have asked me why this house is calling for freezing accession negotiations. as a friend of turkey, i wish that i would never have had to answer that question, but the violations of the rule of law and human rights are too severe to continue as if it is business as usual. they directly violate the framework of accession negotiations and the copenhagen criteria. hundreds of thousands of people have been fired, mass arrests have taken place, journalists are imprisoned and ngos are closed amid a climate of fear and self-censorship. so we have no choice but to respond to the disproportionate measures. after the despicable coup took place it has known only losers. therefore, we call for the freezing of talks. they could be reviewed when the lifting of the state of emergency takes place and when measurable fair trial and due process standards are met. turkey needs to return to a democratic path and respect the rule of law. furthermore, principles such as the presumption of innocence, freedom of expression, separation of powers and fair trial should have meaning. frankly, the eu is already losing credibility when it comes to being a community of values, and that is unacceptable. the statement or deal or whatever it is called on migration with turkey is a case in point. our vote to freeze negotiations is intended to emphasise that the democratic principles that the eu cherishes are more than a dead letter.
madam president, i would firstly strongly condemn the accusations that mr de graaff makes about, among others, our colleague marietje schaake, but i do believe – and i say this to the commission – that there is some need for clarification. i will give you the exact quote that the first vice—president of the commission gave to the belgian magazine ‘knack’. he said, ‘on the basis of american research, there are indications that the gulen movement did play a role in the coup in turkey’. that is quite a statement, and it caused quite a stir in turkish communities, including in my country. my time is limited, so i will ask the commission only one question: can they clarify whether this is the position of the commission? what research are we talking about because, until now, this research was unknown to the parliament? however, the main issue is this: is it the commission’s position that the movement itself was behind the coup? thank you for shedding light on this matter.
for the ecr group the influence of radical islam is growing in the west bank, much to the dismay of palestinian christians i speak with. they vividly remember the violent persecution of fellow believers in syria and iraq. untrained preachers openly sowing hatred in dozens of new uncontrolled mosques are reinforcing the vivid fear among palestinian christians. and that's not to mention the existential fear of muslim converts to christianity. this gloomy picture of the situation of palestinian christians in the west bank is also underpinned by social marginalization in the field of education and the labour market. palestinian christians often do not dare to speak out publicly because of the repercussions. no wonder that more and more palestinian christians are also leaving the west bank, to the disgrace of their immediate surroundings. i therefore urge the high representative, mrs mogherini, to make a serious appeal to the palestinian authority to respect the fundamental right of freedom of religion of palestinian christians, because that is also the cement of that society.
it is vital that the eu remains at the forefront of education, skills and innovation. especially in a world of far-reaching globalization and technologization. the skills guarantee should also be an instrument for convergence. as rapporteur for the revision of the posting of workers directive, i have a lot of experience in eastern europe, where my colleagues and friends understand the need for revision but are afraid of falling further behind, whereas in these countries the lack of skills is a major problem. let us therefore use this skills guarantee to provide a major boost to these vulnerable but potentially very rich countries, with guarantees of sufficient resources, funds and commitment above all.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. they also ask whether this agreement is capable of preventing possible market distortions. these are valid questions, but why do we need to ask these questions at this stage? these questions should have been asked at the beginning of the whole procedure, not at the end. they were supposed to be the alpha and omega of these negotiations. a trade agreement on environmental goods must aim at protecting the environment. a trade agreement of any kind should ensure that trade between two or more parties leads to fair trade, to mutual benefit, and not to market distortions. if the commissioner cannot promise that this agreement will meet expectations on those points, will she then put it to us? okay, we're not accepting just about any product at this point, and the list of environmental goods has already gotten a little shorter, it doesn't include every wild idea anymore. because how did you come to put asbestos on the list? in what world is that good for the environment? but this treaty is also a living treaty, and that means that the rules can be changed again. the negotiations were again held in the strictest secrecy and are again avoiding publicity and scrutiny. for example, how do we know that biodiesel will not just be on the list again if we look the other way? perhaps you are seeking to protect the environment with the present timing of the convention, but who can guarantee that this will continue to be the case? moreover, trade agreements by definition cause environmental damage. the purpose of free trade is to maximize the comparative advantage of trade ... (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague julie girling for her hard work and dedication to this difficult issue. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, i am glad that methane has been left out of the agreement. this has prevented double legislation and double regulation. methane is a greenhouse gas and is already regulated through climate targets. moreover, it allows the agricultural sector to retain the flexibility to determine how it will reduce its emissions of various greenhouse gases. i want to avoid farmers being forced to keep their cows in the stable to capture methane that cows emit. that's exactly what society doesn't want. we must also take account of the organic sector. organically raised animals, on average, emit more methane because they are fed a different composition of feed. on the other hand, it is the organic and conventional sectors that can make a major contribution to reducing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by sequestering co2 in the soil via organic matter.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms girling, for her very good work on striking this deal. indeed, as a previous colleague said, it was a very interesting and tough negotiation path, but i do think that in the end ms girling was very helpful in trying to strike a deal. however, if you assess the deal we can only be disappointed. just look at the demands that we had as a parliament. we wanted higher ambition. we had to give in substantially. we did not want any flexibilities on top of that. the council and the member states were asking for more and more flexibilities. we do not have a 2025 target, so it is now only talking about 2030, which is very, very far down the road. methane is out, so the agriculture sector is off the hook again for cleaning our air. all these things together can only lead to one conclusion and that is that this package is not good enough. and i think i have to turn now to the council – to the dutch presidency maybe in particular – who did good work in striking this deal. but if you turn to all the member states, i really have a question. we are discussing air pollution. if there is one thing that is clearly a european competence and that is really cross-border, it is air pollution. if we do something about it, it will lead to jobs, cleaner technologies, cleaner air, better improvements for our citizens, lower costs for health. all these things we can achieve. what we saw at the member state level was just a purely nationalistic approach; what can i do? i shall pay no mind to my neighbouring countries and only do what i can deliver. that approach really caused the deterioration of this deal, and it is a shame. i ask the member states to keep in mind that if you want to fight for europe, you have to fight for european solidarity on these kind of issues. otherwise, we are giving away this project, and that is the worst thing we could do.
mr president, we as humans can do a great deal to improve our own health. we can move more, we can eat healthy, we can decide not to smoke. one thing we as individuals cannot do is to control the air we breathe. we breathe the air around us, here, in this chamber, and if we are in brussels, in the rue de la loi or rue belliard. and that is why the responsibility of governments is so great. the government is the only one who can determine how clean that air is. public health is one thing. economic damage is a second. and i find it incomprehensible that the member states themselves have been caught up in the cost-effective scenario of the european commission. mr president, today the european environment agency is presenting its annual air quality report, and it shows once again that one sector is doing far, far too little to improve air quality, and that is the agricultural sector. and let that be the sector that is being kept out of the wind again today. ammonia targets are being rapidly reduced and methane even eliminated altogether. is dirty air, dirty emissions, less harmful than the air from agriculture? maybe someone here can explain to me why they always have to be treated so special. president. - the member states have really failed. citizens have a right to clean air and they are being denied that right, and that is why i regret to have to vote against this agreement.
mr president, clean air is important for the health of many people in europe. we are here today to discuss the proposal for national emission ceilings. it is important to us that methane is no longer part of this proposal. because then the cows would be less likely to be in the pastures in europe, and i am thinking here of austria and the netherlands, among others. cows belong in the pasture. it fits the landscape and it benefits animal welfare. president. - the next item is the report (doc. in europe, ammonia emissions have been reduced by 30% since 1990. in the netherlands, ammonia emissions have been reduced by 70 percent. the limitation has cost our farming family farms, which have suffered greatly from these extra-heavy environmental measures, enormous efforts and it is therefore good that both parliament and the council have adopted a revision clause on this compromise. we should also start working on manure processing. that will result in cleaner air, cleaner water and better soil life, and let us work together to ensure that the money from the efsi is used for that. finally, the average air quality in the european union is among the cleanest in the world. this result has been achieved thanks to the efforts of many people in the member states, businesses and entrepreneurs. and that's what we have to continue to do in the future. let's give them a chance. let's not just look at the sacred cow, the car, but let's give the ordinary cow a chance. our ambitions for cleaner air may be costly, but they are also about feasibility, affordability and practicality. the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i agree with you completely and we have worked very hard together on this. but you have to give everyone a chance. i have just told you that if we continue as my two dutch colleagues have just mentioned, we will not have any farms left in the netherlands. they've put in a lot of effort. we have other options. we have to deal with that, too. i'm looking at agriculture and fertilizer processing, and you've got to really invest in that. but we also talked about the automotive business. it should also work on the objectives. together, every sector is working and the business community is willing to support us fully.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you all for your pertinent and constructive comments. i am encouraged by the broad support for the agreement that has been reached. it is close to the original commission proposal in terms of ambition and, given the difficulty of the negotiation, is in my view a good compromise between various positions. i know that concerns remain on flexibilities and on interim checks on the trajectory to 2030. however, the additional flexibilities are tightly constrained and we will monitor their application closely. likewise, for the interim trajectory there is now a robust management framework in place to ensure that member states are on track to meet their commitments. the commission will evaluate the national programmes, including the credibility of the reduction pathways, and those evaluations will be made public. i have listened to and note the concerns of some about the level of effort required in particular member states, but those are the very member states whose citizens will benefit the most from implementation of the measures. they are the member states that have the greatest problems in complying with ambient air quality standards and they are the member states that will save most in terms of health and other economic benefits. we will work with non—member states to maximise their support, including from european union financing and from synergies with, for instance, eu climate and energy policies for the successful and cost—effective implementation of the directive. on the review of methane emissions, the commission has made a declaration because it considers that there is a strong air-quality case for keeping the development of methane emissions in the member states under review in order to reduce the ozone concentrations in the eu and to promote methane reductions internationally. the commission confirms that, on the basis of the reported national emissions, it intends to assess further the impact of methane emissions on achieving the objectives set out in article 1(2) of the nec directive; it will consider measures for reducing those emissions and, where appropriate, will submit a legislative proposal for that purpose. in its assessment the commission will take into account a number of ongoing studies in this field, due to be finalised in 2017, as well as further international developments in this area. i would like to close by again thanking the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for making possible this major step forward in air pollution control. declaration by the commission on the procedure for adoption of implementing acts the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5§4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established in article 5§4 recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a "discretionary power" of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.
nearly half a million people die every year in europe from the effects of air pollution. the current european air quality standards are far too weak to protect human health. europe should adopt the world health organisation guidelines, which impose much higher requirements on particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide. but instead it presents a strong weakening of the current weak standards for air quality. the party for the animals considers this proposal shameful and unacceptable. compared with the current guidelines, this proposal will result in up to 10 000 additional deaths per year. under pressure from the agricultural sector, the greenhouse gas methane has been removed from the proposal and the standards for ammonia are being lowered. while these substances are a huge contributor to the pollution of our air and also cause people to suffer serious health problems or die prematurely. europe is suffocating its citizens and the party for the animals is not a party to that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let me also thank commissioner arias cañete, not only for the way he works very inclusively with parliament, but also for the way that he is dealing with the other important states in the world, and especially the way he has improved the relationship with china, in particular with president xi jinping is very encouraging to see. at the start of the marrakech cop i had one hope, and that was that the entire world would send a message to washington that the paris agreement and the process after that would be irreversible, that the world would move towards this zero-carbon economy, and that in the end is exactly what happened. if president-elect trump has achieved anything, it is that the world is much more united now behind this transition towards a zero-carbon economy, and even countries like india seem to be much more determined now than they were a few months ago – as does china. what happened in marrakech shows very well how rapidly the geopolitical scene is changing at the moment. it is only two years since president obama struck the deal with president xi jinping on climate with china. before that, china was one of the biggest obstacles in international climate negotiations, and look at it now. china is now one of the leading countries in the post-paris process and that is extremely encouraging. and what about europe? of course europe is still one of the leaders, and we are still leading by example, but we have to be careful. look at the difficult internal negotiations within council but also within parliament on the ets. look at the first reactions by almost all member states on the effort-sharing regulation proposal from the commission. it is not that long ago that we all laughed about russia counting every tree in the kyoto agreement to try to undermine that, but now all member states are doing exactly the same. we think that our trees will save us in the fight against climate change and that is not going to happen. finally, it is also an economic issue. china is investing two-and-a-half times more on green technology than europe. as a percentage of gdp, it is even four times as much, so we have to be extremely careful there. this is also a race .... (the president cut off the speaker)
"he's got the whole world in his hands", that song is about god holding the world in his hand. and he has given us the responsibility to take good care of his creation, and i hope and i pray that the next president, donald trump, will realize that, too, and will do so emphatically. fortunately, the climate summit in morocco reaffirmed the paris agreement and everyone called for concrete action. i was also pleased to see that the business community in marrakesh was also making a strong statement. and i find it encouraging that in the united states in particular, there are more and more companies that are standing up for sustainable production, sustainable business, just as mr. trump is coming. i believe that this action must also be taken in the sectors which have remained outside paris. and then i think about shipping and aviation. it is true that in montreal the airline industry has taken a first step, but that is far from sufficient. there's a lot more to do. and shipping is indeed working on cleaner engines and perhaps retrofits of existing engines, but hard reduction targets remain. business and government must show in these sectors that they are taking climate change seriously. because if we really want to tackle climate change and its effects, we need everyone to do their part: both companies and governments. let's all join hands.
madam president, i would like first of all to thank the council and the commission for providing good information to the european parliament’s delegation last week in marrakech, which kept us informed and made sure that we could follow the negotiations very well. however, we all know also that the negotiations were tedious and very technical, and the big political point was, of course, what is going to happen with the united states. that was the political side of the story which was not in the negotiations room, but was very prominent and visible and you could feel it in the rooms in marrakech. there, we really have a challenge. what we saw happening in marrakech is that china is taking the lead. they say that they are going ahead no matter what. so we have left the idea that we are finger-pointing at each other and the idea of ‘we only move if you move’. that is very important, but we also know that it is a delicate balance. for example, a country like india is much more insecure. so this really boils down to ‘what is europe going to do’? is europe going to step in in two ways – dealing with china and also increasing ambition? we need to show that we, as europe, not only talk the talk but also walk the walk. that is crucial, and that is where europe is not delivering yet, but it is also now very crucial in the negotiations on ets, for example. everyone who is talking about the importance of climate change – and i am looking at my epp colleagues now – make sure you also deliver on ets, because in the current negotiations we are only discussing ‘protecting, protecting, protecting’ and forgetting the ambition, and that is making us weak internationally.
in the past months, members of this house and members of the commission have ridiculed, mocked and insulted mr trump and have been outspoken about him. mr verhofstadt even called him a clown. but we now know, mr president, that the majority of the people think the exact opposite of the establishment and they elected mr trump as president. after that election, mr juncker said at a press conference that mr trump understood nothing about the world, nothing about europe and nothing about standards and values. and mr juncker was going to explain it to him. president, that does not seem to me to be a very wise approach when you have a lot of business to do with this gentleman, for example negotiating a climate agreement. so the biggest saboteurs of your climate treaty don't live in china, don't live in the white house; the biggest saboteur of the climate agreement has his office a few hundred metres from here, and that is the incompetent mr juncker.
if i get a chance to give my opinion... it is a good idea, and we are in favour of it as the european parliament, to speak about important treaties of this kind, and you yourself have just said that we should listen to the decisions of the highest judicial body. we must therefore give that body the opportunity to express its views on important conventions of this kind, which the european courts, the german richterbund and 100 professors have said are highly doubtful. we must avoid adopting a treaty which goes against the european legal order.
in writing. ‒ free trade agreements such as ceta and ttip are a disaster for animals, for nature and for the environment, but they also pose a threat to democracy. the party for the animals believes that the european court should be given sufficient time to examine whether the trade agreement is in conflict with the eu treaties. there are still many uncertainties surrounding ceta, so a judgment by the court is certainly not superfluous. of course, such a procedure takes time, but this delay is a good thing. it is during this period that a full debate on ceta can finally take place in the european parliament. without debate, there is no democracy. that is why i voted for an opinion of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the sp voted in favour of this report because it represents progress compared to the current emission ceilings and should be seen as a step in the right direction. at the same time, we do not think that the ceilings are sufficient and we are seeking stricter standards.
the vvd abstained from the final vote on the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, because the establishment of a european military headquarters is not appropriate at the moment. nato is and remains the cornerstone of european security policy and nato's efforts should not be duplicated. the vvd supports the proposal for a single defence market, increased defence investment, including in the field of research and development.
in writing. ‒ the sp recognises the dangers of disinformation from third parties such as russia and is, but abstained because the report makes too many calls for things we do not support, such as strengthening the european external action service (eeas) and closer cooperation with nato. the report is also not sufficiently critical of the provision of information to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the motion on sign language and professional sign interpreters. the motion demands, among other things, that: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the country, and the commission has already taken action to ensure that the situation in the country is not affected by the current situation. the pvv believes that the participation of people with physical disabilities in society is guaranteed in the netherlands. the netherlands is far ahead of the proposals made in the european parliament. the proposals also go beyond the ep's mandate. the european union's obligation to include sign language in school curricula cannot support the pvv, as the ep has no control over the curricula in education. the eu is also calling for the eu to improve its support for deaf and hard of hearing people. but that does not require this motion, it can simply be done.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to extend the approval of the widely used herbicide bentazone for as much as 15 years, and that is despite the fact that bentazone is certainly not an undisputed toxin. there is evidence that bentazone contaminates groundwater and has endocrine disrupting properties. until there is conclusive evidence that the use of bentazone is safe for humans, the environment and animals, the precautionary principle should apply. the european commission cannot then simply grant approvals and renewals. the party for the animals considers that the approval of the active substance bentazone should not be renewed. that is why i voted against this extension.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr werner langen, for his excellent work and, of course, also the other shadow rapporteurs. i am very pleased with the vat action plan because in my country, the netherlands, the problem of vat carousel fraud is also reappearing again and again. this year, for example, it became known that a network of danish and spanish jihadists may have earned hundreds of thousands of euros for the international jihad by fraudulently importing and selling dutch golden cheese and dutch chicken fillets. and this example illustrates once again the importance of tackling vat fraud at european and international level. but there is another reason why i am very happy about the vat action plan and this report, because at the top of my wish list for a long time now is that entrepreneurs with, say, an online shop no longer have to keep up with 28 different vat administrations. let us quickly put an end to the present complicated reporting system which creates a high administrative burden for entrepreneurs. one joint form would be a big help.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. first of all, thank you to brian hayes for the pleasant cooperation between our committees on this dossier and congratulations on the result achieved. three points were the guiding principles of our committee's deliberations on this subject. first, pension funds serve a social purpose and should be treated as such. secondly, the european unity sausage in the field of pensions is not going to work. the differences between member states are too great and the pension landscape in europe is too different. thirdly, we must ensure that we in europe encourage those countries which do not yet have icpvs to develop such systems and not the other way around. all three of these points have been incorporated into this directive thanks to the good work of the council and parliament. we have found a good balance between, on the one hand, the need to have good european standards in the areas of governance, supervision and transparency, while at the same time ensuring that member states have the flexibility to adapt these standards to their own specific context. and that is certainly an outcome that cannot be underestimated in the light of the original proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to welcome the readers and viewers of no style. europe and pensions. yeah, you're freaking out, i know, but on the count of ten, keep breathing, don't foam at the mouth. you can still do that. the netherlands, belgium, sweden, france and germany: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. the european directive sets minimum conditions which the netherlands largely meets in most cases and in some cases does not. this will provide participants with a better understanding of the environmental and societal impact of their pension fund's investment policy. this gives participants better protection if their pension fund wants to move to another country, a triple lock. more information and better protection. that is the result and that result convinces the cda group in the european parliament but not their party colleague pieter omzigt, who could not count to 10. so better information, better protection, when you thought we were only thinking about our own retirement.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it is a kind of dutch party here tonight. and you can see that from the large number of dutch speakers. in the netherlands, when the p word is mentioned, everyone stands up straight away and looks at the question with suspicion: 'what has brussels to do with this? what are they going to do in europe with our pensions? i am pleased with this final result and i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, brian hayes, and all the other negotiators who have also been active in the trilogues. because i think we can be very, very happy with this. it is a proposal aimed at minimum harmonisation, especially in the areas of governance and transparency. this leaves all member states with sufficient freedom to pursue their own policies, for example in the field of the protection of members and pensioners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have to be very careful with that. no new powers have been delegated to the commission or the european pension supervisor eiopa and the national pension funds remain under national supervision, in the netherlands by the nederlandsche bank. the information and governance requirements are also not as detailed as in the first proposal. it is important that members and beneficiaries are well informed about their rights and obligations, but they can of course decide for themselves what colour paper, ink and typeface they want. a focus on the principles instead of the petty rules. so no more of this crazy-ass coddling, which, thankfully, we got rid of. finally, mr president, i also think it is important that sufficient attention be paid to the distribution of benefits and risks between the generations, and this is of course very important in order to keep the pension system affordable in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr. president, indeed i am another dutchman speaking on pensions. this is unavoidable on this topic because indeed in the netherlands as soon as you talk about pensions and europe, it is great fun, and that is even an understatement. i would like to thank the rapporteur, brian hayes – by the way, in ireland it is also good fun on pensions and europe – for his very good work. maybe from the starting position we had slightly different views on this file. for brian, it was also very important to stimulate the cross-border activity of pension funds, whereas for me, the protection of the people back home to ensure that their pension funds could not just go under and leave them unprotected was very important, as was ensuring that national banks keep their supervision and their control. we secured that very well, and the compromise that we struck is a very good way of dealing with cross-border pension funds. this is indeed crucial. why is europe addressing this issue? it is because we are talking about huge investments with huge consequences that people are relying on, and you want to make sure that people can rely on them in the longer term too. we are especially happy that, under the green initiative, pension funds are now obliged to report on their investments and future carbon stocks so that in the longer term the carbon bubble is being taken care of for the pension funds’ longer-term investments. that is a very important green success which we have happily achieved under the leadership of brian hayes. thank you for that once again, and also thanks to all the dutch shadows who joined in the negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank catherine bearder for her great work. with this report all the european paperwork has been done, and now it is time for action – urgent action. i must compliment the commission; the commission is doing more than its bit, but i am more doubtful about the role of the member states. if you look at the council conclusions from june 2016, they were rather weak. the council conclusions only ‘invited’ the relevant actors to implement the action plan, and that is far too weak. this action plan has 32 actions; 24 of these 32 actions had to be implemented before the end of 2016, that is today. so my question to the commission is: can you inform parliament of this a little bit sooner than july 2018? and mr president, can you send the minutes of this meeting to the council, asking the council to put the action plan again on the council agenda. is it urgent? yes, it is extremely urgent. in the two years since the communication was published, we have lost more than 10% of the wild rhinos, and more than 75 000 elephants.
wildlife crime is a serious threat to biodiversity, but it is a threat to animals above all. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. and illegal trade in animals is not just about ivory, horns and tiger skins. it's mostly about animals. and millions of animals are traded alive in europe, with the netherlands at the beating heart of this reckless business. illegal trade is closely intertwined with legal trade and uses the same routes. and, mr president, we are not talking about toasters here. we are talking about animals with consciousness and feeling, and that is why we should certainly not encourage the legal trade in wild animals. and it's great that this plan has attention to prevention, enforcement and wildlife management. because as long as there are not enough suitable wildlife sanctuaries, many enforcers will look the other way when it comes to confiscating an alligator, a baboon, or a lion cub. i also believe, mr president, that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i thank my colleague mr bearder for this report. the illegal trade in wildlife is indeed a serious threat to nature and the rule of law. let's take a look at the rhino. poaching in south africa alone is breaking records this year. over a thousand rhinos have been stripped, and that's a low point. poaching of rhinos has increased by 9,000 percent in seven years. more than three rhinos are being killed every day right now. the horn of this animal is more valuable than gold. it's worth 50,000 euros a kilo. such proceeds make this crime too attractive to the poor people of the region and so this crime must be tackled very hard with the action plan that is before us. i would also like to draw attention to the importance of legal hunting, paragraph 56. in some reserves, sustainable legal wildlife management is an important source of income. this source of income offers the poor a good alternative to poaching. so certified legal sustainable hunting trophies can make a significant contribution, despite all the emotions and prejudices. and as a hunter, you should be proud of that. and we should be able to allow this. i also think it is important that the european development funds should provide financial support to emerging countries to stop, apprehend and punish poachers and smugglers. and i am therefore glad that the committee on the environment has supported my amendment on this point. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i am very glad that you ask me that question. my husband is a hunter, and my whole family, all farmers, are not hunters. but you need both. i have found out after my husband's marriage how the hunters also clearly contribute to the right balance in this matter we are discussing. i'm totally against illegal hunting. but you need the legal hunt, and you need it bad.
first of all, i would like to thank mr riquet for his report. you see, mr president, even at our age you can still be very innovative, and that is important in this report. we are dealing here with a jewel in the crown of the european economy. the combination of smes, start-ups, the sharing economy and the internet, together with transport, is a real source of innovation and new jobs. and i would also like to call on the commissioner to be flexible with new pilot projects. there are thousands of people in europe who want to start small businesses in the sharing economy, in the transport sector and as start-ups. we have to take advantage of that. and sometimes the european rules on subsidies are very strict. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. my colleague de grandes has already spoken about it. we must look at this very carefully, because there are many of these small vans that ignore the rules of transport in europe, for example on the tachograph. we'll have to look into that. don't panic, but i'm going to do an investigation.
the question is: what is the european parliament's role in this matter? how is the european parliament involved in the negotiation of international air transport agreements? since the lisbon treaty, the european commission has had the right and the duty to negotiate such agreements on behalf of the 28 member states. and the european parliament, as you have heard from our president, is keen to be involved in these negotiations. but, mr president, i have learned that parliaments should not negotiate themselves. it's a life-threatening condition. we have all kinds of views, we have all kinds of wings in this house, we should not negotiate ourselves. but, mr president, and i agree with the transport committee and the committee on tourism, there is a big difference between fremdenverkehr and tourism. because tourism sounds a lot nicer. and i ask mrs bulc to keep that information flowing. and indeed, interim reports on the negotiations would be very welcome. we must not underestimate the cultural differences between the european union and some of our treaty partners. the level playing field that we want, for example with the gulf states, but also the question of illegal state aid, as well as the social aspects, are of great importance to the european parliament. and i trust, mr president, that the european commission will properly fulfil this new task of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner bulc for joining us tonight because i know she came all the way from warsaw from the high-level conference on drones. the point i want to make is that the commission recently forwarded to the secretariat of the committee on transport and tourism eu restricted information regarding the air agreements with asean. an email from the transport committee secretariat was sent to some meps – not all, only a few – with the following information, and i quote, ‘documents are accessible on a need-to-know basis to the following authorised persons: chairs, vice—chairs, coordinators, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and staff involved in the specific file.’ i have one question: why not extend the right to know to all interested meps, given that restricted documents are to be consulted individually in a secure reading room? my second question, commissioner, is how will you debrief parliament after each negotiating round?
author. who will remember my father gui minhai?, the title of an opinion piece in the washington post on october 17. a moving declaration of love from angela gui to her abducted father, until last autumn a free man in hong kong, publicist, bookseller and publisher. who will, who will remember my father? today, at any rate, we here in the european parliament are recalling out loud, and on paper with a resolution, the unprecedented illegal imprisonment of gui minhai by the chinese authorities. what is driving the leaders of the world's superpower china to this brutal, cruel action? what are they afraid of, civilians like gui minhai? a plausible answer is given by german author jan-philipp sendker, who has been traveling to china for more than 20 years, in his contribution to the weekly die zeit of november 17. china's leaders are outwardly very self-conscious, but inwardly they are driven by fear for their own people. the result is a huge trust gap between government and citizens. the result is that many chinese want to leave their own country, says jan-philipp sendker. or that they're making plans for this for their own children. i shall end, mr president, with a point of light. the goc can provide a starting point of a counter-evidence of the confidence gap: the immediate release and rehabilitation of gui minhai and countless others.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, with all the focus needed to stop russia’s army and its role in the killing of people in syria or in the illegal annexation of crimea, i am glad that the russian population is at the heart of our debate today. ildar dadin faces the same repression so many russians face on top of difficult economic circumstances. in particular, opposition voices, human rights defenders, people working in ngos and civil society, journalists and bloggers have faced stricter laws increasingly applied with political motives in russia. this has created a climate of fear and repression. of course, we recall the murder of boris nemtsov, the systematic torture in prisons and intimidation that is met with impunity. prison conditions are awful. the murder of sergei magnitsky shows that people are not safe in the hands of the state. it is important that ildar dadin is released, and we urge putin to lead russia, not away from the rule of law, but back towards respecting it, back in the direction of the international community.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution on eu-turkey relations because turkey is moving further away from the democratic rule of law and cannot therefore be considered for eu membership. the call for the freezing of the accession negotiations is a clear signal to turkey. the vvd is committed to the eu-turkey agreement on the control of refugee flows. the vvd will work to preserve this agreement. turkey is also an important nato member, which is important for our security.
in writing. ‒ since 1999, as a member of the european parliament's foreign affairs committee, i have opposed accession negotiations with the republic of turkey. the european parliament has always been convinced that the sgp is sufficient for relations between the member states of the european community and turkey. the ep resolution voted on today merely calls on the commission and the council to establish a temporary freeze on the ongoing accession negotiations. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the accession of turkey to the european union. the question is: who is holding who hostage or who is tormenting who on this political road? i therefore vote against this resolution on turkey!
in writing. ‒ all representatives of christenunie-sgp in the european parliament have always opposed turkish accession to the eu. that is why they have also opposed accession negotiations and the many billions of dollars of subsidies that have been given to turkey in recent years in this context. turkey is not a european country geographically, culturally and politically, and it never will be. until recently, the majority in the european council, the european parliament and the house of representatives felt that turkey should be admitted. this view is rapidly crumbling: i'm good with it! the european parliament's resolution on the eu-turkey relationship is not perfect. there is no talk of ending the accession negotiations once and for all, and unfortunately the accession funds cannot be stopped immediately either. the european parliament has called for a freeze on accession negotiations with an official candidate country to the european union. a historic moment and a giant step forward in our position on turkey. so i count my political blessings: the ep is moving for the first time in its history explicitly in the direction of our views on turkey. that is why i support this joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ the vvd opposes the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and the introduction of vat for financial service providers, as proposed in the report on the fight against vat fraud. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of taxation. the budget is therefore a long list of costly failed dreams, billions for so-called refugees, billions for a crippled economy and billions for eu propaganda. unlike the social democrats there, i find it a great shame that the budget for the palestinians is also going up by 10 per cent. these are the same palestinians who are trying to kill jews in every possible way. we're going to give over 300 million a year to the terrorists who launch missiles, bombs and, nowadays, set fire to forests. and brussels insists that these are all beginnings of peace negotiations. brussels, morally bankrupt, what else can you do? mr president, it is therefore clear that my party will vote against this budget. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. the point made here is, of course, that this european parliament itself has a committee on budgets and in that committee on budgets, after i had tabled amendments on that, it was decided that there was no expenditure that could be reduced even a little bit. everything this parliament does and everything europe spends is well spent. in no european country, in no country in the world, is there ever a budget that is perfect, but this committee on budgets thinks it is. and that is the source of all budget overruns.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, my group, the alde group, was one of the first groups about 10 years ago to ask for this kind of umbrella agreement, and on the surface it looks really good and contains very good safeguards. but it is a bit like with swiss cheese – the cheese is fantastic but it is the holes that are the problem, as in this case. i would say to my colleague, mr voss, who is accusing me of political opportunism, or something like that, that there is a negative opinion by the legal service of this house, by working party 29, by the edps, by various legal experts, and also some pertinent and negative remarks by the advocate—general of the european court of justice, so this is not politics. there are very legitimate legal concerns. this may not have the effect of an adequacy finding, but it does have the effect of being a kind of green light, because it provides appropriate safeguards, as we say, so we have to look very closely at what we do. now one thing, madam commissioner, is that the commission has conceded that in order for the umbrella agreement to be fully implemented, it is necessary, it is a precondition, that the exemptions from the privacy act for pnr, tftp and comparable programmes be repealed, because only then can the umbrella agreement be considered to be implemented. so what do you think the chances are that will ever happen? i think they are zero. they are zero under the obama administration and they certainly are zero under the trump administration, so what are you going to do if the united states will not repeal? what will the european commission do? will we be in the same situation as with safe harbour, which had to be repealed but it took the ecj ruling to actually annul this. then the rapporteur said we have unconditional data protection rights. well that is misguiding, mr rapporteur, because there is a condition – namely for judicial redress, namely allowing for data transfer for commercial purposes. that smells a little bit of ‘buying’ our rights; that is not unconditional. finally, we all know that the rights do not extend to all eu citizens and they do not cover people living in the european union without eu citizenship. therefore, i do think that an ecj opinion is not a stalling tactic, but will address very legitimate legal concerns which have been expressed not only by my group, but also by the legal experts that i have mentioned before. i find it remarkable that the rapporteur, the green rapporteur, who is known as a privacy activist, now seems to rely on the word of mr trump for the safeguards of european citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – but i suppose the problem is i come from a country where they make gouda cheese, which doesn’t have any holes, therefore we have a bit of trouble with that. but i think i’ve been very clear in the last 10 years that we’ve been discussing this; you can also read the details in my blog, if you’d like to. but one of the key elements is what i’ve just mentioned: the commission itself has, in writing – including in the declaration that will be attached to this, conceded that the umbrella agreement can only be considered implemented if the exemptions to the us privacy act are repealed. this is a bit complex and technical, but the commission has stated that, and that will happen when pigs fly; that’s my problem.
the new rules governing the use of data relating to us european citizens by police forces in the united states are, in my view, a major step forward. and i hear the lady in the field say that it's not, but we can only win. either they will use this agreement for their own purposes and we will have gained something, because up to now our data is not protected there and we cannot go to court there, or they will do nothing about it, and this is a worthless agreement and we have lost nothing else. and these deals are not coming anytime soon with donald trump in power. i fear for the safety of european citizens, of course also of americans, just as mr trump is further tightening security. luckily, trump hasn't got the judges in his pocket yet, and we can go to court there. what is very unfortunate is that this protection only applies to people with a european passport and not to everyone living in europe. we'll set the example. if you want to get your way here, it doesn't matter what passport you have. good example is good to follow, as the saying goes. but perhaps that's too much to ask for president-elect donald j. trump.
i asked a very simple question. the commission in the declaration that will be attached to tomorrow’s document states very clearly that a precondition for the umbrella agreement to be valid, to be implemented, is the repeal of the exemptions to the privacy act. what does the commissioner think are the chances of that happening? it’s a precondition: without that the umbrella agreement is not valid.
madam president, next week the internet governance forum (igf) takes place just after the change of the iana stewardship to the global internet community in october 2016 – an important milestone that has been supported by parliament and the commission for years. the new arrangement is the outcome of political awareness and pressure. we have strengthened the position of the global internet community, internet governance. the principles of openness, security, reliability and independence from national states have been applied. in times of strong tendencies toward national solutions and attitudes, we have to make sure that the internet truly remains the free worldwide web. there can be no balkanisation of the internet, where countries build virtual walls, fragmenting the worldwide web into national internets, limiting trade and communication, which are our principles. a lot of work needs to be done, as mr buzek said, including in terms of involving the stakeholders from developing countries and our youth. it is important that young people take responsibility, and the youth igf next week in mexico is a good start. it is a good sign that parliament is sending a big delegation – a good high-level delegation – as is the commission, to guadalajara in mexico.
author. – mr president, mr cicu has made a lot of very concrete proposals. it is now two years ago that we first spoke in this house about the solidarity fund, and it is indeed possible to be quicker, to be more effective and to have a reconsideration of the exact territory and figures. so my question to the commissioner more generally is whether the commission is able to take over these proposals and what kind of planning does it have to deliver these ameliorations. and it doesn’t have to cost more. in fact, since the solidarity fund started we have spent eur 3.8 billion, and it has been mobilised in 70 natural disasters in 24 countries of the union. so as mr chico said in his report, it is very close to people and it can be used to act immediately. at this time of naturalistic, populist debates, this really is being close to the people when with floods, hurricanes and earthquakes things go totally wrong. i support mr cicu strongly on this. the second question, harking back to the previous period and the proposal from mr kallas in 2007 on earthquakes, is that it is so important to have a good preventive alarm system, and also with our funds – combining the solidarity fund with the regional development funds – to put prevention in the forefront. i think we are having the right debate, especially as the situation in italy makes this a timely debate, and i am very glad that the government recently brought the proposal to the european commission. i hope we will have good follow-up to the proposal.
i would like to express my condolences to all the victims of recent natural disasters. as a dutch mep, i know what natural violence can do. the water crisis in the netherlands in 1953 is still alive in my country and the need for prevention, the need for good water management is also passed on from generation to generation. it is therefore very good that europe has a solidarity fund and can thus show real solidarity with regions, countries and victims of natural disasters. i would like to thank mr cicu very much for the efforts he has made in his report, but i am critical of the attempts of a number of political groups to introduce in the report all sorts of new adjustments to the current regulation. and the current regulation underlying the solidarity fund was amended very recently, in 2014. the effects of this adjustment are hardly measurable. so again, i am critical of calls to reinstate the commission and to come up with new proposals to re-adapt the current solidarity fund. and i am also critical, mr president, of the resolution which says in paragraph 7 that investments in sustainable recovery, in earthquake-resistant investments, should be excluded from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact. that is unacceptable to my group, the alde group. let us avoid, above all, that we do not invest in natural disasters, which could lead to small financial budgetary disasters. that's it.
president. - mr juncker, you have been unable to avoid praising dictator fidel castro as a hero of many. the eu's sympathy for dictators who silence their opponents is striking. because under their leadership the union is also turning into a dictatorship where there is no room for dissent. freedom of speech only applies here if you say what the politically correct elite wants to hear, and the brussels elite is at its best again today. the squandering of hard-fought freedoms by dismissing anyone with an unwelcome opinion as racist, xenophobic or islamophobic. no means are spared in attempts to silence the opposition. the brussels elite continues to dismiss patriots as extremists, equating criticism of the asylum tsunami with hatred. but, mr president, explain to those millions of voters what is racist about wanting to protect your country against islamic terrorists and against illegal immigration. what's wrong with standing up for your country and its people? president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in turkey. my own party leader, the leader of the dutch opposition, geert wilders, must answer to the court, according to millions of dutch people. but, mr president, he will not be silenced. we will not be silenced because the time for political correctness is over and citizens everywhere are showing that they are sick of it. we are stronger than this politically correct "way with us" mentality, stronger than this cultural relativism, stronger than this political elite.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted in favour of the proposal, so that our national customs authorities will once again have the right to supervise all ships in our own ports, regardless of their origin. these rights should have been left to the member states to administer them in the first place.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the joint text on the use of the contingency margin 2016. the pvv considers margins on budget lines as instruments to cover unexpected overruns on those lines. a margin is not a general budgetary buffer. money from the margin that does not need to be used for the budget line concerned should be returned to the member states.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the draft report. the pvv considers margins on budget lines as instruments to cover unexpected overruns on those lines. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the pvv group.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the draft report. the pvv considers it undesirable for the european parliament to have control over the level of individual member states' contributions to the eu's own resources.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the provision of these funds because compensation from the eu for the financial consequences of the floods in 2016 in lower bavaria is not a responsibility of the eu. national states can decide for themselves when and how much they wish to express solidarity with another state affected by a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the provision of these funds because compensation from the eu for the financial consequences of the floods in 2016 in lower bavaria is not a responsibility of the eu. national states can decide for themselves when and how much they wish to express solidarity with another state affected by a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the mobilisation of the contingency margin. the purpose of the decision is to allocate the contingency margin to finance commitment appropriations relating to expenditure on migration, refugees and security. this amount of over €1.16 billion is in addition to the €350 million flexibility instrument. if this amount can be decided on now, it is clearly not an 'unforeseen' event. the european parliament is not able to make clear choices in terms of policy priorities. already granting the full margin will lead irrevocably to deficits and surcharges for member states in 2017.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the availability of funds from the flexibility instrument. the decision aims to allocate €350 million from the flexibility instrument to finance commitment appropriations relating to migration, refugees and security expenditure. this is in addition to the more than €1.16 billion that is being drawn from the contingency margin. by spending this money now, there is no longer any question of 'flexibility'. the european parliament is not able to make clear choices in terms of policy priorities. already allocating €350 million from the flexibility fund will almost irrevocably lead to deficits in other policy areas in 2017 and to backlogs for member states.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the availability of advances from the solidarity fund. the solidarity fund is intended to provide conditional assistance to countries affected by natural disasters. it is proposed to allocate €50 million to pay advances from the fund. the pvv believes that it is unnecessary for the eu to provide funds for emergency aid. national states can decide how much and to which other countries they wish to provide aid. the pvv also considers that the eu's payment of advances on such aid is unnecessary.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the joint text on the draft budget 2017. the draft budget contains many items with which the pvv has great difficulties. the pvv believes that it is unnecessary for the eu to increase funds for, for example, palestinian terrorists, turkish cypriot occupiers, migration and youth travel across europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is my honour to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the mid-term review, whom i am privileged to be addressing, today for their cooperative work. but i also want to point out the cooperation with my colleagues kyllönen and sassoli to bring this package to a successful conclusion. it wasn't a simple package. we are talking today about further opening up of the european railway market. it is an extension of the first, second and third railway packages and it is a further step, because this railway package will not bring about a complete opening up of the market. the european public now also thinks a little differently about this opening up of the market than when these proposals were written, and that is something we should look at. there is a tension between the opening up of the market and the provision of public services. many people think that the public service will increase because of the opening up of the market. but we certainly do not have that guarantee, especially since there are many exceptions to the opening of the market. member states or, in any event, the competent authorities may choose from a series of exceptions to circumvent or avoid public procurement. we have all discussed this at length in technical consultations and i am pleased that the national regulators are given a greater role in this fourth railway package. this applies in particular to the exception on direct award but also to the availability of rolling stock for the new entrant. the social chapter was a difficult one. we have had lengthy negotiations on this and in particular intensive discussions with my colleague, mr liberadzki, of the social democrats. i believe that we have now struck a balance between the dynamics of market opening and the protection of workers. what i have noticed in this dossier is that directive 2001/23 on the protection of workers is applied very modestly by the member states, and that is an essential point for the social protection of workers. opening up the market is fine, but not at any price. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency and my own country, the netherlands, for having managed this difficult dossier so well after three years. it wasn't easy. i 've outlined what we 've done: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that was my input.
- i'm the reporter. i would like to focus on two elements. first of all, the comment of my liberal colleagues mrs meissner and mr riquet. i myself would have liked to see a little more ambition in the fourth railway package, and the commissioner said that the commission's proposals were more ambitious. i also think that the first reading of the european parliament showed the same ambition. then we got the trilogies, and in those years, things have changed. the member states which were initially very strong in their support for market opening have been slow to act. i do not blame those member states because the debate on market opening versus services in europe has taken a different turn in recent years. you can dwell on that, but it's good to implement what we have now and then look beyond. the second point concerns the social component. i understand very well the concerns of my colleagues in the s&d group, but on the other hand we must also be honest. there are national schemes, there is subsidiarity and there are the guarantees given by the european commission. moreover, as research shows, the companies which have been privatised have generally not suffered any deterioration in their working conditions after privatisation. i said it in my first speech: we must find a balance between social protection, mobility and innovation. i think we've found that balance.
i would like to thank mr fleckenstein for his work. 2001, 2004: the proposal for a new european port regulation has so far failed. i believe that this was mainly due to the 'one size fits all' approach that the european commission has always advocated. but europe and its ports are very diverse and we have taken this into account in the proposal before us. the proposal that the commission put forward for the third time was still largely a 'one size fits all' approach. however, we have been able to make enough adjustments, so that this proposal is good for europe, good for the netherlands and good for ports like rotterdam. what have we improved? the original commission proposal called for the opening of ports to a whole range of service providers: rowers, dredgers, and pilots. that's a nice thought, but it's got to work in practice. for example, some ports are too small to accommodate all of that. safety must also be maintained, so it is not always wise to have several pilot services in one port. our amendments have now created all sorts of exceptions, and a port like rotterdam, for example, can now continue to operate with one pilot service and also have control over who can and cannot work in the port. at the same time, we have made sure that there is not too much administrative burden. for example, the commission proposed that workers in ports should be provided with relevant training and education by the port authority. yes, that is a nice idea, but a lot of ports in my country, for example, don't deal with that at all. so we've taken that out and reduced a large set of requirements for independent oversight to realistic and reasonable proportions. the last and very important point is that the provisions on financial transparency have been improved and have been maintained. ports must continue to be transparent about their finances, which is crucial for a level playing field. we do not want member states to benefit financially from their own ports. so i support this amended proposal.
before we know it, 12 december 2016 will be another historic day as we complete both the fourth railway package and the port regulation! i thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for all the work he has done, because it was not an easy job. my colleague peter van dalen has already indicated quite clearly what elements we have deleted and changed and mrs vozemberg has also done her job as a greek mep. we must pay particular attention to the question of state aid. mr fleckenstein has constantly tried to explain to mrs bulc's colleagues what we now have to understand by this state aid. it is not yet clear, but i understand that we are still to receive a detailed explanation from mrs bulc's colleagues. in the meantime, the ports are doing quite well and i would also like to draw attention to the training element. we see in the maritime sector, both inland and offshore, a shortage of personnel and proper training is a requirement. i think we're making a good move today, and i thank you very much.
for the enf group freedom, security, equality and freedom of expression are all fundamental rights of which the european union is so proud. but ironically, the same brussels elite hates the people they want to defend, the people who stand up for their own culture, who stand up for their own country, the people who want their country to guard the borders to protect the dutch against profiteers, against rapists, against criminals and against terrorists, the people who want to protect their country against anti-violence against women, anti-violence against homosexuals, honour killing and anti-semitism, in short, the people who want to protect their country against the hateful ideology called islam. those people who are being thrown out of here as racists, as xenophobes or islamophobes and the politicians who are advocating them are being accused of - and i quote from today's report - 'hate propaganda and violent political views' when it is the european union that has brought europe in with its terrible policy of open borders, of hatred and violence. and you're trying to dismiss concerned citizens and politicians with policies like today's as pariahs and take away their fundamental right to free speech and free thought. but i can tell you that you will never succeed because we will continue to defend freedom, security and freedom of expression, all those fundamental rights which have been dismissed by the brussels elite and which seem to apply only to a group of people selected by you. and we do it simply because we want what is best for our country, because the netherlands is our country and must remain so.
the seas are wide and the oceans are deep. but the bottom has been reached. there are an estimated ten million species of plants and animals living in our oceans, and many of these species have not even been discovered yet. they live on or just above the seabed, in the deep sea. this deep sea begins at 200 meters and contains beautiful coral reefs. some are over 100 feet high. the oldest are about 8,500 years old, and there are fish that can live up to 150 years without human intervention. and these beautiful fish are ground into cheap animal feed and fish oil. where do we get the right to wipe out these unique species in one fell swoop from this unique ecosystem of monstrously large trawls? that's not fishing, that's ocean vandalism! and international waters have very few rules. the fish have been declared free of birds and after years of debate, a half-baked plan to combat this ecocide has been put to the test. but once again, the rights of the strong outweigh the interests of the weak. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of trawls and seines, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of trawls and seines. only the deepest seabed is a little bit more protected, and that's a blanket for bleeding. it is with a heavy heart that i shall vote in favour of this proposal, because without this plan the seabed will be completely at the mercy of the vandals of deep-sea fishing. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the report. the report calls on the european commission to develop long-term policies for the cultural and creative industries, including by developing a common legal basis. the pvv believes that the dutch legislator should be well placed to develop a long-term policy for the creative industries. subordinating the dutch parliament to yet another legally binding agreement is undesirable and contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today’s debate about human rights in the world comes at a time of growing pressure on the universality of human rights, from the banning and intimidation of civil society, to attacks on human rights defenders, journalists and bloggers, or restrictions on the free expression of lgbtis, artists and those who demonstrate peacefully. the list is long and requires clear push-back that involves more leadership from europe. it is difficult to be proud of europe when we watch aleppo fall and bombardments by russian and assad’s planes being rewarded, when refugees fleeing this atrocious war are being fenced off, and international law and human rights are discarded when they get in the way of counterterrorism efforts or ‘managing’ migration. it is now more important than ever for us to stand unequivocally for the very values upon which our open societies are based and give meaning to those values globally. that means a more forceful and credible stance for the importance of and respect for human rights. young women, such as the sakharov prize winners who courageously fight the horrible violence caused by daesh, have fled to europe, but imagine the many, many, many who have spent years in refugee camps now, who have been married off with absolutely no perspective. what will we tell them? we cannot be complacent and must make sure that europe remains a beacon of freedom, a safe haven for free thinkers and a meaningful representation of what universality of human rights is actually about. it is not only the right thing to do, but it is in our self-interest to offer perspectives for people who need them so desperately, such as in north africa and the middle east. i therefore urge you, as my final comment, to avoid deals like the one made with turkey and now being copied with countries like mali, in order to avoid a situation where the eu’s foreign policy becomes a mere instrument to manage migration without having a clear focus on the need to defend and protect human rights. that is what we should give much more attention to and prioritise in our foreign policy.
it is not even ten words in paragraph 148 of the weidenholzer report: where (europe!) christian refugees are regularly persecuted on religious grounds. but behind these few words lies a world of fear, of suffering, yes, of traumatic experiences. "i was more afraid in my german shelter than in syria", confesses a 29-year-old christian refugee. jihadists from his homeland were his fellow citizens, whom he fled... just a few weeks ago, open doors germany published its investigation into, note, 743 offenses against christian refugees in german asylum facilities and another 10 against yazidis. 'the tip of the iceberg', stresses the aid agency. threats of death, physical harm, and immoral behaviour towards women and girls are common. let us not even mention the verbal violence of muslim radicals against christian asylum seekers as "unclean infidels" who do not deserve a common roof over their heads, and therefore cannot use common kitchens and showers. "i get threatened every day", a christian convert told an interviewer with his back to the camera. what should she, what should persecuted eastern christians think of religious freedom, democratic rule of law in europe? to all of us the answer!
for the ecr group the european union would be proud of self-criticism, especially in relation to its failed middle east policy. however, paragraph 48 of the brok report also lacks any trace of this. the eu is not the only one to be criticized. because what's the case? the eu is violating both international law and the 1995 interim agreement between israel and the palestinians (oslo ii) by financing palestinian construction and infrastructure projects in area c of the west bank without any coordination with the competent israeli authorities. and the security of the jewish state is at stake: speaking of geopolitics. this policy of the european union, together with political measures by brussels against the jewish presence in judea and samaria, as well as the 2013 directives and the 2015 product labeling, disqualifies the eu as a party or even a peacemaker in the israeli-palestinian conflict. it was a fiasco!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i give my full support to the brok report and to the work of elmar brok, not only concerning this report, but also his whole commitment to european integration in this parliament and outside. we should put our money where our mouths are, and that means that we can’t just have declarations and no means. we should have this option of 2% gnp for our defence. this is also the nato commitment. we should strengthen european defence, of course. the best thing would be inside nato as the european pillar. since kennedy it has been an issue that we should have it, and we should now really create it. however, if the united states and the european members of nato do not agree, then europe has to have its own options. it cannot be stagnant. of course we have to have joint procurement and joint research and development. let me be clear: russia should know that we defend our union and our values, and that is with hard power and with soft power. we should under-promise and over-deliver, and we should go forward together. again, european defence – and i limit myself to this issue – is key.
our agricultural policy is increasingly market-oriented. farmers want to be able to keep their own pants. so give them the opportunity to do so. hardworking farmers must be given the tools to ensure fair market operations along the whole chain. that is why it is so important that the legislator clarifies the possibilities for farmers and gardeners to organise. so they can join together to make a fist in the chain. unlike large companies, individual farmers and gardeners do not have an army of lawyers to help them see through the complex rules and see where opportunities lie. in addition, farmers and gardeners should be given more opportunities to cover operational risks such as low prices or adverse weather conditions. the next step is for member states to ensure that these risk tools work properly and that farmers and gardeners can actually use them. i have tabled amendments to that effect. simple, clear and transparent rules ensure that the market offers a fair outcome for everyone. and that's what we all have to keep striving for.
blue-card question. – you said something that i would like to ask your clarification on: you say ‘dictated by the courts’. so do i understand that you now officially say that you no longer accept the independence of the courts – one of the pillars of democracy and the trias politica? a yes or no answer, please.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in afghanistan. he raped and murdered a promising student. she was 19 years old, in the prime of her life. she was an active campaigner for the reception of migrants, she was the daughter of an eu official. it could have been your daughter, it could have been my daughter. politicians and the media are calling it an incident. in germany, thousands of rapes, robberies, assaults by illegal immigrants have already taken place. how many incidents does this commission admit to a structural problem? ten thousand, a hundred thousand, a million? the answer is never. you're not going to admit there's a structural problem. these illegal invaders are expressing the belief that they have the right to rape our women and our children, yes, even our children. because boys and girls, whether they're 5 or 10, it doesn't matter. they're raped and murdered. and you will continue to deny any responsibility for this tsunami of violence against women and children in our cities. but you opened the borders, set up the ferry service to pick up these illegals off the coast of libya. you are working with the dictator of turkey, the handmaiden of isis, of al-qaeda, al-nusra, of the butchers in aleppo, in homs and in mosul. you're wrong. so i give you this message for the council of december 15th: the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of terrorism, to close national borders, to send back the invaders to turkey and libya, to stop negotiations with turkey, to stop the islamization of europe. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i do not hear a question, but i do make a comment, and that is that there are a lot of fine words being said about this parliament standing up for the rights of women and children in europe. not words but deeds, ma'am, deeds. and your actions show that you do nothing, nothing at all for the women who are victims in our cities of all these illegal immigrants.
this parliament wants to freeze the accession negotiations with turkey. stopping at the end would be much better, but we've certainly made a good step forward. the prisons in turkey are teeming with opposition mps, journalists, students and various minorities. any criticism of him or his country from europe, erdogan threatens to reopen the flow of refugees. erdogan is blackmailing the european union with the refugee deal. but we know that turkey is not a safe country. turkey is violating the rights of refugees in the southeast of the country. and it is not at all clear to whom the billions of eu funds for the reception of refugees are going to go. europe must solve the problem of asylum and migration itself. deals with third countries can help, but not this blackmailing part with erdogan. the council must stop or, if necessary, freeze turkey's accession tomorrow. and finally, a question for you: where has mr juncker been?
madam president, turkey was hit again by an awful terrorist attack last weekend. this time it was in istanbul. i would hereby like to express solidarity with the turkish citizens, and especially with the families and friends of the victims. to fight against terrorism is our joint duty, and turkey can count on our support. the topic on the plate of the eu leaders is how to react to the internal developments in turkey. when it comes to the european parliament’s call to temporarily freeze the accession talks, i am glad to see that, for the first time, there seems to be a clear majority of member states willing to give a political signal. the signal is that under the current circumstances, the eu’s approach can no longer be ‘business as usual’. member states seem to be united along the position that no new chapter should be opened in the negotiation process. although that doesn’t go as far as our call, it does indicate that eu leaders are finally taking the clear position of parliament – the position of our citizens – seriously. it is important that we send a joint signal from the european union that turkey must return to the path of democratic reform and respect for the rule of law. i hope that the 28 eu leaders will manage to come up with a unanimous statement. talks on accession are now not credible, but that doesn’t mean that we should stop our dialogue with turkey. this dialogue, however, cannot be limited solely to cooperation on migration. it cannot be limited only to the implementation of the eu-turkey deal.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the mobilisation of the globalisation fund because the problems of the es/community of valencia automotive sector are not directly attributable to globalisation, which is a requirement. the european commission also believes that there is no longer an economic crisis in the eu, so that this crisis can no longer be a reason for allocating funds from the globalisation adjustment fund to the es/community. in addition, multinationals do not have to be rewarded with funding for a social plan if they cut jobs.
in writing. ‒ this explanation concerns amendment 10 that was tabled to this text. the vvd delegation in the european parliament wholeheartedly supports the rights of disabled people, and is in favour of improving access for disabled people to public transport and other facilities in general. however, the vvd delegation chose not to support this specific amendment as its adoption would imply a rejection of a crucial part of the railway package in second reading. this would lead to a disproportionate delay in the legislative process, which the people of europe do not deserve. moreover, it is unlikely that a reopening of the negotiations would lead to an alternative outcome concerning this specific issue.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation in the european parliament wholeheartedly supports the rights of disabled people and is in favour of improving access for disabled people to public transport and other facilities in general. however, the vvd eurodelegation chose not to support this specific amendment, as its adoption would imply a rejection of a crucial part of the railway package in second reading. this would lead to a disproportionate delay in the legislative process, which the people of europe do not deserve. moreover, it is unlikely that a reopening of the negotiations would lead to an alternative outcome concerning this specific issue.
in writing. ‒ this explanation of vote concerns amendment 10 to this report. the vvd delegation in the european parliament wholeheartedly supports the rights of disabled people, and is in favour of improving access for disabled people to public transport and other facilities in general. however, the vvd delegation chose not to support this specific amendment as its adoption would imply a rejection of a crucial part of the railway package in second reading. this would lead to a disproportionate delay in the legislative process, which the people of europe do not deserve. moreover, it is unlikely that a reopening of the negotiations would lead to an alternative outcome concerning this specific issue.
in writing. ‒ the pvv voted against the research programme of the coal and steel research fund. the reason for the creation of the fund is obsolete. the fund should be dissolved.
in writing. ‒ the fpa supports the development of new and existing (financial) risk management instruments - within the framework of the common agricultural policy - which can make farmers more resilient to price fluctuations. the vvd believes that binding european rules on unfair trading practices are not the right instrument and awaits the impact assessment of the european commission on this matter. the vvd wants more attention to be paid to voluntary and self-regulatory initiatives initiated by the sector. the vvd also does not support the idea that the cap objectives should prevail over the competition rules and that the crisis reserve should be placed outside the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the fpa supports the development of new and existing (financial) risk management instruments - within the framework of the common agricultural policy - which can make farmers more resilient to price fluctuations. the vvd believes that binding european rules on unfair trading practices are not the right instrument and awaits the impact assessment of the european commission on this matter. the vvd wants more attention to be paid to voluntary and self-regulatory initiatives initiated by the sector. the vvd also does not support the idea that the cap objectives should prevail over the competition rules and that the crisis reserve should be placed outside the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the fpa supports the development of new and existing (financial) risk management instruments - within the framework of the common agricultural policy - which can make farmers more resilient to price fluctuations. the vvd believes that binding european rules on unfair trading practices are not the right instrument and awaits the impact assessment of the european commission on this matter. the vvd wants more attention to be paid to voluntary and self-regulatory initiatives initiated by the sector. the vvd also does not support the idea that the cap objectives should prevail over the competition rules and that the crisis reserve should be placed outside the eu budget.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, my group, the s&d group, recently pleaded in a letter for restoration of collective bargaining in greece. labour market reforms have made collective bargaining practically non-existent, and the troika said not to worry because reforms would strengthen collective bargaining at firm level instead. but that didn’t happen, and the situation of greek workers is dire. mr juncker’s letter in response to us stated that the commission acts in full compliance with the eu treaties, but that the eu charter of fundamental rights doesn’t apply as such to greek measures. this is a flagrant contradiction. the situation in greece is neither in compliance with the eu charter of fundamental rights, nor with the core ilo conventions. it is not because the memorandum of understanding is not eu law that we can now exclude greece from the european social model. i will not stand for that. the memorandum cannot be a legal no-man’s land, and besides, the recommendations of the already-mentioned expert group are crystal clear. the commission writes that the troika is discussing which recommendations to consider. let me remind the commission that the experts were endorsed by all memorandum partners and that cherry picking from them is unacceptable. it’s time to bring collective bargaining in greece back in line with good practice and with eu law.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i always think you are funny, mr legutko. for somebody who says that this debate should not take place, you have got a lot of speaking time from your group. having this debate, this is a very personal remark. in this debate today, my thoughts go to my former colleague, bronisław geremek, who sat next to me for a number of years. he was always a big hero of mine when i was still a student, and i was ever so proud that he was my colleague. today, i stand, my group stands, this house stands with the polish people – just as the european parliament stood with the polish people in 2012, when we debated and condemned the website by geert wilders’ party from the netherlands against the polish people; as the european parliament also stood by the polish people this summer, when we mourned a polish citizen who was the victim of xenophobic hate crime in the uk. we stood by the polish people then. we also stand by the polish people today; we stand by the thousands who took to the streets yesterday at a protest organised by the committee for the defence of democracy, which i commend for their actions. we also stand by our own sister party ‘nowoczesna’ and other parties like the epp colleagues who are present. they are protesting against the erosion of their rights, because like all eu citizens, polish citizens are entitled to an independent judiciary. polish women, like other women, are entitled to protection against domestic violence. polish women, like other women, are entitled to free choice into decide over their own bodies. polish people have a right to freedom of assembly, freedom of speech and freedom of thought, mr legutko. now the polish government is robbing the polish people of their rights and freedoms. i wonder if this is what the polish people voted for when they went to the ballot stations a year ago. did they vote for the restriction of their freedoms? i do not think so, mr legutko. they voted for a good life, to get a job, education for their children, housing and infrastructure. that is what they voted for, mr legutko. they did not vote for restrictions on the freedom of the press or the independence of the judiciary. finally, a question to mr. timmermans: you have been criticising the polish government, but i would like to know what you are going to do? because, in your letter of july 27 – i am coming to conclusion, madam president – you described the situation in poland as ‘a systemic threat to the rule of law’. now, if that does not call for action by the european commission, then what does? even if you know that the council will never vote for an article 7.1 procedure, the commission should take its responsibility and vote on that. we should put it on the agenda.
blue-card question. – my initial question was going to be whether after this intervention, you can still look yourself in the mirror in the morning, because i do not think you believe what you just said, syed. very disappointed. my more political question is going to be – and i think your allegation, that i, as apparently all of a sudden a part of the left, was a support of communism, is really hysterically funny, you know it is not true – but i wonder: if you say poland is being singled out, you seem to have forgotten that i have been criticizing hungary, lithuania, the netherlands, many other countries. my question to you is: why then did you do not support the report that was voted in this house on the pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that covers all the member states and treats all the member states equally? i would have expected your support.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. "our broad approach to migration is paying off". - that's right. - what? the eu approach is bearing fruit, but it is bearing very bitter fruit: rapes, assaults, robberies and murders by illegal immigrants. and you look away from all these horrors. because if everything is going so well, why do we need to deploy 21,100 police and security guards in cologne to prevent a new wave of attacks by young illegal immigrants on new year's eve? why then are soldiers marching through the streets of european cities fighting islamic terrorists who have entered europe via the flow of asylum you have facilitated? stop looking away. let's do what the people back home ask. let the member states themselves go back over their own borders to protect their country, to put things in order. we do not need brussels and mr timmermans to do that. mr timmermans and his associates can order champagne in fourteen languages, but they do not understand the wishes of the common man in any of them.
a functioning dublin is essential for a functioning schengen, and i fully agree with the commissioner on this. and if the situation in greece allows it, it is also very desirable to resume the dublin rules on return to greece. on the other hand, i wonder if desire is not the father of thought. i read in the recommendation of the european commission itself that: the islands are home to 16 000 refugees, but there is only room for 8 000. there is a waiting list of 1 200 unaccompanied minors for appropriate accommodation. many of the reception facilities in greece are substandard. the hotspots are lacking in sanitation and hygiene. i can therefore continue for a while with the findings of the european commission's communication. the question for the european commission is therefore: how realistic is it that in three months' time we will have a situation in greece where we can actually send people back to greece? a second point which the commission has rightly noted here: the commission has also been active in the field of asylum, and the commission has been active in the field of asylum policy. tens of thousands of refugees are waiting on the greek mainland. solidarity is also an essential condition for maintaining a functioning dublin system in europe in the present circumstances. my question to the european commission is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether it is possible to restrict the reintroduction of the dublin rules on return to greece to those countries which have already fulfilled a significant part of their quota for the redistribution of refugees.
president. - i do not wish to speak about turkey or greece, but about niger. today, the european commission proudly presented figures showing that the number of people, migrants, crossing niger and going to europe has fallen dramatically. the figures used by the commission are from aeon. but they themselves say they doubt their figures, that refugees have probably chosen other routes, and that prices for the smugglers are apparently going up. that reflects badly on the refugees. the european commissioner says that everything is connected. that 's right . everything is connected. more border guards paid and trained by europe, higher prices for smugglers, more difficult and more dangerous routes for refugees and, on top of that, more people drowned in the mediterranean last november because we have no legal routes. - congratulations to you!
the commissioner said that the eu had to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens were not left behind. i find this statement bizarre because many people have been imprisoned for months now in appalling conditions. the situation on the mainland is far from being in order, and the situation on the islands is even more dire. refugees are in danger even in the refugee camps. for example, in hotspot moria recently a mother and her children were killed by the use of dangerous gas cylinders that are widely available there. in addition, the refugees are at risk from the tensions between different groups of asylum seekers. i therefore think it is important that we take the most vulnerable refugees out of greece and host them in one of the other european member states. now, to say that the greek asylum system is functioning well enough to send refugees back there is not realistic. the eu must stop making promises it cannot deliver. in the end, it only helps the populists and not the refugees.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, you leave me with more questions than i came with actually, because i am beginning to wonder more and more, if you say this is not a data leak – a bit like ‘ceci n’est pas une pipe’ – what a data leak looks like. to me this sounds as though 700 pages of confidential information have been publicly available. when you say that it is only historical data and that it does not jeopardise any current investigations, that does not correspond exactly to the media reports saying that there may have been an impact on ongoing investigations. so i think this is extremely worrying. if the procedures apparently do not ensure that people do not make such mistakes, we have a very serious problem. we have been asked, under great pressure, to pass a series of measures like, for example, my favourite – eu pnr – which has decentralised the storage of data. if we cannot even secure the data stored by europol, how can we be sure that the data which member states are now obliged to store are safe? i’m getting extremely worried here. but actually my main concern here is that we have all been talking about security, security, security, security – ok? – and we have all agreed that one of the big gaps in the security system is information sharing. this will have a devastating impact on the trust between member states. how are you now going to convince member states to share information? a majority of this house, as well as the commission and the council, fiercely opposed compulsory information sharing. i am not really sure what to think any more. you are trying to reassure us here by saying, ‘keep moving folks, there is nothing to see here’. well, i am not reassured. i would also like to know when exactly all these people – the council, the jsb, the secretariat and everybody – when have they been informed? was that before or after the media report? that is a question that i would like to get an answer to. i would also like to know when the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs was informed, and under what conditions. was he informed with the freedom to address these issues publicly, or is there a confidentiality clause?
it has already been said by a number of colleagues today: the main priority for europe in the field of security is to improve the sharing of information between member states. to encourage that better sharing, there needs to be trust that that shared data is being handled in a good way. that trust took a major hit two weeks ago. call it a leak, call it human error. the fact is, 700 pages of classified material were publicly available. i would have liked to have seen a more forceful reaction from europol, from the european commission. it is good that a security awareness seminar is being organised for europol staff next friday, but i would like to hear how you take the weakest link out of the system. the system is only as strong as its weakest link. how are we going to make it technically impossible for this kind of human error to happen in the future in an organisation like europol? this is crucial to keep europol at the forefront of the fight for better security in europe.
mr president, i don’t know the rules by heart, but we have a debate here about something very serious. i’d like to remind colleagues that in any member state such an incident would have led to the resignation of the politically responsible, and here it’s treated as a technical incident. i have asked very precise questions and i do not get an answer. three questions: when were people informed? the list of people i understand from you – after the media revelations – but i’d like to get a ‘yes or no’ confirmation. two, when was the libe chair informed, and under what conditions? was there a confidentiality clause? and three, how are you (well that is more the commission, but you are actually responsible as council for europol) going to secure data stored in decentralised systems like pnr and others? can i have an answer to those questions?
(inaudible)... unacceptable. i would like that to be in the minutes.
who wouldn't cry over the terrible terrorist attack on the christian community in egypt on sunday when you see the photos of the victims? i share the growing concern of egyptian christians over a series of incidents between muslims and christians in villages, including the dragging of an elderly christian woman naked through the streets. and i share the concern about the lack of the basic freedom to convert to christianity as a muslim. egyptian christians want a government that effectively protects their lives, property and fundamental rights. the european union must urge president sisi to do so and must give him all the support it can.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of animal welfare. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, such as the use of bullfighting, the endless dragging of animals in overcrowded cattle cars, the force-feeding of ducks and geese for the production of foie gras, the killing of stray dogs in romania, the structural tail-cutting of pigs, the terrible fate of slaughter horses and the abolition of animal testing. in short, citizens are very concerned about the way we treat animals in europe, and that is understandable, because it is one of the few values we still share in europe. this common value is enshrined in article 13 of the european constitution. animals are sentient beings that we must take into full consideration. however, the majority of these petitions are rejected by the commission with the words 'that is not our competence'. how can the commission be surprised that the people are turning their backs on europe? europe is faltering because you completely ignore the concerns of the citizens. if you want people to think the european union is important, give them a reason for it. make good rules for animals and make sure they are enforced. do what you should do and protect our animals. because 15 years ago, we were on the cutting edge of animal welfare, and now we're way behind, and if we stand still any longer, we're going to be overtaken by china. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
author. – mr president, let me also take this opportunity to welcome the ambassador of myanmar, who was present here today, and also thank the delegation of the parliament of myanmar for their visit to brussels last week. i think this is a showing of willingness to engage in a constructive dialogue with us, and constructive dialogue is exactly what we need at the moment. we are, as all our colleagues have said, extremely worried about the discrimination and the repression of the rohingya minority in myanmar who suffer, in the words of the un high commissioner al-hussein, from: deprivation of nationality which renders them stateless; severe restrictions on freedom of movement; threats to life and security; denial of the rights to health and education; forced labour; sexual violence; and limitation on their political rights. last year we hailed the elections in myanmar as a historic moment and an important step towards an inclusive democracy. that was one year ago; we now urgently need to see a commitment from the myanmar government, a commitment to the basic human rights of all its citizens.
for the ecr group it is chilling and alarming that iraq is probably the only country in the world with an official "society for the preservation of mass graves". which brings us to the chilling fact that isis's mass graves are a continuation of an existing murderous practice: the mass graves of the saddam hussein era and then of al qaeda. but the shiite camp in iraq has also committed war crimes and mass graves in the inter-islamic conflict with the sunnis. this applies both to the iraqi army and police forces and to their shia allies, the murderous and predatory militias of the popular front. given this situation - a general atmosphere of revenge - you are very anxious to see new mass graves in iraq after the liberation of mosul. that's the reality.
in writing. ‒ the sp is of course of the opinion that any future international aviation agreements should never have the effect of reducing the working conditions or conditions of personnel working in the aviation sector. we do not want to prejudge the content of the treaties. that is why we abstained on amendments nos 4 and 6.
in writing. ‒ the sp is of course of the opinion that any future international aviation agreements should never have the effect of reducing the working conditions or conditions of personnel working in the aviation sector. we do not want to prejudge the content of the treaties. that is why we abstained on amendments nos 4 and 6.
