on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr mato and i would like to support this new proposal that aims at transposing into european law measures under the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean as adopted by iccat. in order to rebuild tuna stocks, we need to follow certain steps. first of all, we have to set up a gradual reduction in total allowable catch levels. this is very important. but we also need to impose stricter fishing within certain areas and time periods and new minimal sizes. this is also important. finally, we have to reinforce the iccat scheme of joint international inspection. i agree that the rules should be applied in a uniform way in order to ensure a level playing field for all engaged in tuna fishing including, and most importantly, for non-eu operators. otherwise, if we think about it, if we apply different rules to foreign fleets, all efforts and restrictions applying to eu fishermen will have no results and it will seem that we are actually penalising our own fishermen. we have to make sure that we do not penalise our own fishermen by imposing on them stricter measures. with that, i would like once again to express support mr mato’s work on this file.
madam president! we all know that bluefin tuna is a particularly valuable fish, a special gift of nature. some have described it as a living, floating gold mine moving at breakneck speed and therefore, there is a need for wise and prudent policies to ensure that this species of fish lives on forever. it is not so good, because we know that this species is endangered, and therefore the european parliament has not only the right but also the duty to transpose the rules on the multiannual plan for the recovery of tuna stocks. a few brief remarks first, legislation must be clear, consistent and unambiguous on tuna conservation, recovery and fishing. secondly, there must be strict enforcement for all tuna fishermen, including, and perhaps above all, those outside the european union. third, the maximum limitation and even elimination of illegal, even criminal, tuna fishing.
in writing. it does not take a great deal of physical chemistry to conclude that excessive screw-down of diesel engine energy efficiency to reduce co2 emissions is accompanied by an increase in fuel combustion temperature. if a certain threshold is exceeded, i.e. 1800°c inside the combustion chamber, toxic endothermic compounds (nox) may be generated. i am in favour of the establishment of a committee in the european parliament to clarify who really made the mistake of imposing on the motor industry, without defining and precisely specifying the means of measuring emissions, environmental objectives which are unrealistic from the point of view of the course of physicochemical phenomena. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. i believe that the fault for the volkswagen affair lies with the european legislators, i.e. the ep and the ec. nature, it has been found, is governed by other laws - the laws of physics and chemistry - and the course of processes and phenomena as a whole is not subject to the excessive ambitions of politicians and their legislative creativity.
member of the commission.– madam president, beginning with the question, i am really sorry that the honourable member of the european parliament, krisztina morvai, missed my first intervention because i was just talking about the importance of human rights and the importance of the rule of law among european values. the european union is based on human rights and the rule of law, so i think that when we talk about intercultural dialogue and when we talk about the role of education in democratic socialisation, we have to take into account those values as well, which means the universal validity of human rights in the european civilisation. i think there is a consensus that education plays an enormous role in democratic socialisation, and there is a consensus that if we want to make our democracies more cohesive and more efficient then we have to go beyond formal educational institutions and we have to map out all the opportunities in non-formal and informal education and in intercultural and inter—religious dialogue, and we have to map out the role of the family in democratic socialisation, in teaching democratic soft skills for our children, for the next generations. the ward report is a very important element and step in this long and pretty complex road. we are just at the start of that road and i am looking forward to working with you efficiently and, hopefully, successfully on this project.
in writing. in a multicultural society, dialogue is a desirable alternative to antagonistic relations between representatives of different cultures, to the way of education, to the dissemination of basic values. thus, attitudes of mutual respect and appreciation become a prerequisite for fruitful cooperation between nations. intercultural dialogue is essentially a two-way process, with benefits for both parties. the eu member states' programmes (tempus iii, mundus) promoting the mobility of young people, including academic teachers, are therefore a valuable initiative. and through shared educational platforms, we're experiencing a process of synergy between generations. in addition, through participation in volunteering, sport and art initiatives, there is a process of differentiation of individuals whose actions enhance the relationship and consequently facilitate teamwork. this cooperation allows us to deal much more quickly with social phenomena, such as violence, radicalism, racism, xenophobia. another flagship initiative is the european cities partnership, a 'europe for citizens'. its aim is to promote cultural, information and economic exchanges, so as to be able to co-create international activities at the grassroots. dialogue thus becomes a window on the world, whose strength is its diversity.
in writing. the motto of the european union, 'united in diversity', underlines the immense wealth of europe's cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity. intercultural dialogue plays a major role in the harmonious coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs in europe. the promotion of this dialogue cannot be the task of public authorities alone; it requires the involvement of the whole of society, including representatives of civil society, religious leaders, but above all the family, which is the basic cell of our social life. it is in the family that each of us begins to learn about the culture, values and norms of society, which is why the family plays such an important role in promoting dialogue between cultures. intercultural dialogue brings people and nations closer together, effectively prevents and helps to resolve conflicts, and promotes reconciliation. it allows us to better understand the differences between us. this is particularly important in the context of recent tragic and disturbing events in europe and the world. every effort should be made to promote this dialogue through the use of new technologies, including social media. this will help us to reach young people, who are particularly vulnerable to the distorted image of other cultures.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. the natural consequence of the deep financial crisis that started with the financial markets is a comprehensive regulation of financial services, where the priority must be product safety, and of course also banking system safety and macroeconomic stability, and that means costs and generally increased regulatory complexity. it is therefore time to streamline and diversify non-bank channels of financing the real economy without any illusions that we will achieve the right proportions across the atlantic. we welcome the european commission's green paper on the capital markets union. however, we suggest that the global context, international competitiveness, access to finance for smes and, above all, listening to the market, should be taken very seriously in the further development of the framework, because sometimes the removal of barriers is more important than new regulations.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking all the co-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, their contribution to the report and their commitment to the compromise amendments. i would like to thank professor krasnodębski for the balanced opinion of the committee on culture and education and all the colleagues who have tabled amendments. your comments have contributed to the development and completion of the report presented. a key element of the report on the skills strategy to tackle youth unemployment is the emphasis on the importance of better preparing graduates for the labour market. a real partnership between education and business is needed, and young people themselves need to be involved in all the activities that improve their situation on the labour market. good practices exist in this area, but they need to be disseminated. my report also highlights the role of smes in creating new jobs and the fundamental importance of entrepreneurship skills training from the earliest age and the promotion of entrepreneurship. in addition, the report highlights the role of key skills, including those related to new technologies, and the importance of combining theoretical training with traineeships and professional practices. the report also stresses the importance of making education and lifelong learning systems more flexible and of removing barriers to further education and retraining. it draws attention to the under-utilisation of skills training opportunities in the workplace. another important aspect is to level the playing field by supporting young people from disadvantaged groups, including from poverty-stricken families, migrants and young people with disabilities, in acquiring appropriate vocational and social skills and in realising their own potential. finally, i pointed out that the potential, talents, values, and priorities of young people raised in an era of rapid technological advancement are vastly different from those of the previous generation. i think this is one of the reasons why the potential of the younger generation is still not fully understood and used. it is therefore worth investing in programmes that help employers and employment services better understand the values, opportunities and potential of the younger generation. we'll be voting on this report tomorrow. i am confident that our work together will help to better target action to support young people's access to the labour market and that the findings of the report will inspire further work. the dramatic level of youth unemployment is one of the most serious threats to europe's social and economic future today.
in writing. one of the most important problems facing the european union for many years now is the huge unemployment among young people. the current problems have been overshadowed by the fact that more than 4.5 million people aged 15-24 are unemployed, and in some member states the unemployment rate for this age group is close to 50%. given the current refugee crisis, the problem of youth unemployment is likely to increase. if we are to avoid a build-up of problems and a kind of ghettoization, the education and training systems of the member states must adapt very quickly to this situation. on the other hand, we should also remember that young eu citizens will face new competition in the labour market and will demand even stronger support. the next few years will therefore be a very challenging one for both education systems and public employment services. tackling youth unemployment requires a focus on three pillars: formal education, career guidance and lifelong learning programmes. only by effectively combining these three systems and adapting them to the situation in europe will we be able to reduce youth unemployment in europe and effectively integrate and integrate hundreds of thousands of young refugees into the labour market.
mr president, two eu institutions decided to put poland under scrutiny for breaching eu principles. internal rules were used as legal background instead of the sound eu primary and secondary law. this procedural double fault seems very repressive as well as applying double standards vis-à-vis various eu member states and their respective nations, as well as vis-à-vis different cabinets of poland in dealing with the same issues.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.– mr president, i would like to thank everyone for the report, which is well-structured and with a balanced approach, including in the area of the competences of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and with a clear message that we need digital harmonisation in europe. what does a ‘balanced approach’ mean? it means that we have not achieved the real turning point, to say that we need stronger solutions, more harmonised in some areas, as decisions on 5g spectrum development and text and data mining development have been scarce. on the other hand, however, we have made progress in the right direction, have begun working faster on the e—privacy directive and have established equilibrium between privacy protection, security needs and business opportunities in the era of big data. it shows that we understand how important data privacy is in the light of the data-driven economy. in that area, we need future—proof solutions. now we can start work on issues such as how to share data, what ownership of data means and how to make data much more secure, also using the solutions of security and privacy by design.
mr. chairman, please! i'm just pointing out the appalling noise and explaining the confusion because every market is uniform and the goods sold in it don't have to be uniform. if i read, for example, in the introduction, paragraph 1.1, that the creation of a digital single market can revive the single market, that is nonsense, because if we revive the market, it means that it exists, and if it exists, it cannot be created. this is a european union-wide nonsense. for example, we read that the internet has a huge impact on women's empowerment. why is there no mention of homosexuals, or zoophiles, or redheads? redheads, as we know, are fake, and the internet doesn't tell you if they're redheads or not, so the internet also promotes redheads' emancipation. ladies and gentlemen, this is a big deal, but we're voting yes because the free market is our priority.
mr. chairman, please! the creation of a fully integrated digital single market is one of the main priorities of the current european commission, driven by the need to make better use of the enormous potential of digital technologies to create strong growth and new jobs. it is estimated that this additional growth could amount to as much as eur 415 billion, opening the way for several hundred thousand new jobs. the obstacle, according to the legal affairs committee, is the rigid national regulations on the telecommunications market and the lack of harmonisation of copyright law, and in particular of its exceptions and limitations. it is therefore necessary to modernise copyright rules in the light of the digital revolution and changes in consumer behaviour, to create a level playing field where all economic operators offering their goods and services in the union are subject to the same, uniform principles, including data protection and consumer protection. intensive action is also needed to promote an entrepreneurial culture and more innovative business models.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to transpose into union law the measures contained in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings in 2012 and 2014. the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan is a response to the significant decline in the stocks of this highly valuable fish. according to experts, the population of the atlantic sturgeon has declined by 83 percent in the last 50 years in the western atlantic and in the mediterranean. today, only 25% of the world's tuna population lives in these waters. in view of the above, i have supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. i strongly support the plan to restore bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the application across the european union of all measures for the recovery of bluefin tuna is essential for a uniform and effective action in this area. the present proposal is to transpose into union law the technical measures contained in the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan.
in writing. ‒ during the post-world war ii economic boom, the consumption of fish - including raw and canned tuna - increased in developed countries, and for more than 15 years, japanese sushi and sashimi, which are made with bluefin tuna, have been extremely popular in europe and the world. the secondary effect of this trend is the depletion of tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, and the problem therefore directly affects the european union. the main countries involved in the tuna fisheries are spain, france, italy, croatia, greece, portugal, malta and cyprus. overfishing has led to a drastic reduction in the number of this species in the ecosystem. in 2006, the first long-term plan was drawn up, covering 15 years, to protect the resources and increase the tuna population. scientific research confirms that the tuna population increased for the first time in 2015. the high level of surveillance required by the eu (increased number and frequency of inspectors, vessels, aircraft and other means of control) has increased the tac for tuna by 20% compared to 2014. sustainable fishing, the regulation of stocks and fruitful cooperation between community countries are the source of success that has contributed to the development and protection of the valuable bluefin tuna species.
in writing. ‒ the report was supposed to deal with competition policy, but it deals largely with taxation. that's why i couldn't support the report. it repeated many of the recommendations contained in the taxe report. for example, it calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base, country-by-country public reporting for multinational corporations, access by the commission to data exchanged by member states' tax authorities, legislative proposals by the commission going beyond the oecd/g20 proposals on beps, and the establishment by the european parliament of a committee of inquiry to further investigate harmful tax practices (unlike taxe 2, which remains a special committee rather than a committee of inquiry). the report mentions the completion of the banking union (i.e. the third pillar, the european deposit guarantee scheme) and even the increase of the eu's own resources by transferring to the eu budget the recovered illegal state aid.
in writing. ‒ as author of the opinion, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the 2014 report on eu competition policy, i am very pleased that the document adopted by parliament includes the provisions i proposed, calling for a significant deepening of international cooperation in order to effectively implement the principles of competition law. the ideal solution, which i strongly support, would be to work out a multilateral agreement on competition within the world trade organisation. i hope that will be possible in the next few years. as far as the european union itself is concerned, i believe it is extremely important to monitor more closely the implementation of the increasingly ambitious international agreements concluded by the community with third countries. we need to know whether the competition rules are being respected and whether the commitments made by the trading partners are actually being fully respected and enforced. what is also worth noting in the report adopted by parliament is the provision i have proposed on the need to equalise access to all resources, but with a clear emphasis on access to energy sources, as well as its transmission and transport. one of the most important factors in creating equity in the marketplace today is access to energy.
in writing. ‒ while ecr strongly supports intercultural dialogue and although this report contains positive elements in reinvigorating dialogue between communities, it has a number of serious faults which prevent us from approving it. primarily, the report fails to address the specificity and characteristics of cultural dialogue. while referring to eu fundamental values as they are set out in the treaties, it does not take into consideration existing pluralism in their interpretation, which should be acknowledged and respected. the report seems to neglect that genuine intercultural dialogue requires strong identities of interacting individuals or communities based on deep knowledge of their cultural canons, therefore a good knowledge of history, literature, music, etc. is indispensable. the spirit of the document suggests that a successful intercultural dialogue relies solely on opening up to other cultures by resigning from one’s own heritage – the rapporteur strongly objected to incorporating any references to the christian roots of the europe despite tabled amendments on behalf of several political groups. concerns were also raised regarding the form of the report – the text is incomprehensible and consists of lengthy, vague paragraphs made up of fragments that do not match.
in writing. ‒ cultural, linguistic and religious diversity is a great asset of europe, which must be nurtured on the basis of the common values that bind our societies, such as freedom, equality, social justice and non-discrimination. intercultural dialogue involves an open and respectful exchange or interaction between persons, groups and organisations from different cultural backgrounds or with different worldviews. it is a tool for empowering citizens and makes a significant contribution to improving democracy and developing a sense of belonging. culture should also become a major element of political dialogue. the contribution of artistic creation to cultural diversity is immense and its role in promoting eu values and encouraging european citizens to develop critical thinking is invaluable. that is why i am particularly pleased that my home city wrocław will be the european capital of culture in 2016, which is a challenge for the city, the region and my entire country to prove that integration through culture in the broad sense is possible. in this spirit, the year-round program of observances was also developed. given the importance of respect for universal human rights as individuals and cultural rights, i call for greater priority to be given to initiatives aimed at promoting cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue. greater cooperation in this area is needed, not only at eu level but also at regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it shows a very cross-cutting and comprehensive approach to the issues of radicalisation and extremism. the solutions proposed in the report violate the principle of subsidiarity in the field of education and fall outside the competence of the european union. the compromise solutions proposed were not to my liking, as they are based on concepts that are too broad and do not lead to an improvement in intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education.
in writing. – while ecr strongly supports intercultural dialogue and although this report contains positive elements in reinvigorating dialogue between communities, it has a number of serious faults which prevent us from approving it. primarily, the report fails to address the specificity and characteristics of cultural dialogue. while referring to eu fundamental values as they are set out in the treaties, it does not take into consideration existing pluralism in their interpretation, which should be acknowledged and respected. the report seems to neglect that genuine intercultural dialogue requires strong identities of interacting individuals or communities based on deep knowledge of their cultural canons, therefore a good knowledge of history, literature, music, etc. is indispensable. the spirit of the document suggests that a successful intercultural dialogue relies solely on opening up to other cultures by resigning from one’s own heritage – the rapporteur strongly objected to incorporating any references to the christian roots of the europe despite tabled amendments on behalf of several political groups. concerns were also raised regarding the form of the report – the text is incomprehensible and consists of lengthy, vague paragraphs made up of fragments that do not match.
in writing. ‒ understanding, tolerance and trust are the foundations of peaceful coexistence, and we recognise this in our community of 28 ethnically, religiously and culturally diverse countries. we can work together, take care of our citizens, build a stable and competitive economy, and seek good relations with the rest of europe and other continents. we also need to promote the ideas of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights around the world. the declaration on promoting citizenship and the common values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination through education adopted at the informal meeting of the ministers of education of the member states of the european union in paris on 17 march 2015 expresses this message. a message that we are committed to mutual respect, to respect for the inalienable rights of the individual: the right to life, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to education, health care, employment and recreation. the report on which we voted develops these principles and calls for a concerted effort to promote these valuable ideas. we should also remember that promoting intercultural dialogue offers the opportunity to prevent radical attitudes, political or religious extremism, which is of great importance today. let us draw on our own experience and pass it on to others who can benefit from it.
in writing. – while the ecr strongly supports intercultural dialogue and although this report contains positive elements in reinvigorating dialogue between communities, it has a number of serious faults which prevent us from approving it. primarily, the report fails to address the specificity and characteristics of cultural dialogue. while referring to eu fundamental values, as they are in the treaties, it does not take into consideration existing pluralism in their interpretation which should be acknowledged and respected. the report seems to neglect that genuine intercultural dialogue requires strong identities of interacting individuals or communities based on deep knowledge of their cultural canons, therefore a good knowledge of history, literature, music, etc. is indispensable. the spirit of the document suggests that a successful intercultural dialogue relies solely on opening up to other culture by resigning from one’s own heritage – the rapporteur strongly objected incorporating any references to the christian roots of europe despite amendments tabled on behalf of several political groups. concerns were also raised regarding the form of the report – the text is incomprehensible and consists of lengthy, vague paragraphs made up of fragments that do not match.
in writing. ‒ the julie ward report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values rightly recalls the eu charter of fundamental rights as the core of european values and draws attention to the links between radicalism, the process of radicalisation and social, cultural exclusion and marginalisation. intercultural dialogue reduces tensions, facilitates integration and provides the best responses to the challenges of today and tomorrow. i agree that effective intercultural dialogue requires knowledge of one's own culture and other cultures, and that it is increasingly important in the context of intensified processes of globalization, migration, religious and cultural conflicts, intensified hate speech. the development of intercultural dialogue should be seen not only as a strengthening of the eu's potential and intellectual capital, but also in terms of security, protection against extremism and terrorism. i therefore support the report's call for increased mobility of pupils, students and teachers, including academics, for international cooperation between schools and universities, and for investment in inclusive formal and non-formal education. i support the recommendations on preserving cultural diversity in classrooms and among staff, and on the education of refugees and economic migrants.
in writing. – while we as the ecr group strongly support intercultural dialogue and although this report contains positive elements in reinvigorating dialogue between communities, it has a number of serious faults which prevent us from approving it. primarily, the report fails to address the specificity and characteristics of cultural dialogue. while referring to the eu fundamental values, as they are in the treaties, it does not take into consideration existing pluralism in their interpretation which should be acknowledged and respected. the report seems to neglect that genuine intercultural dialogue requires strong identities of interacting individuals or communities based on deep knowledge of their cultural canons, therefore a good knowledge of history, literature, music, etc. is indispensable. the spirit of the document suggests that a successful intercultural dialogue relies solely on opening up to other culture by resigning from one’s own heritage – the rapporteur strongly objected incorporating any references to the christian roots of the europe despite tabled amendments on behalf of several political groups. concerns were also raised regarding the form of the report – the text is incomprehensible and consists of lengthy, vague paragraphs made up of fragments that do not match.
in writing. – while ecr strongly supports intercultural dialogue and although this report contains positive elements in reinvigorating dialogue between communities, it has a number of serious faults which prevent us from approving it. primarily, the report fails to address the specificity and characteristics of cultural dialogue. while referring to eu fundamental values as they are set out in the treaties, it does not take into consideration existing pluralism in their interpretation, which should be acknowledged and respected. the report seems to neglect that genuine intercultural dialogue requires strong identities of interacting individuals or communities based on deep knowledge of their cultural canons, therefore a good knowledge of history, literature, music, etc. is indispensable. the spirit of the document suggests that a successful intercultural dialogue relies solely on opening up to other cultures by resigning from one’s own heritage – the rapporteur strongly objected to incorporating any references to the christian roots of the europe despite tabled amendments on behalf of several political groups. concerns were also raised regarding the form of the report – the text is incomprehensible and consists of lengthy, vague paragraphs made up of fragments that do not match.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes ideological solutions and goes beyond the competence of the european union, violating the principle of subsidiarity in the field of education. this applies in particular to restrictive amendments based on international law which give parents the right to choose the manner in which their children are educated. in addition, the report referred to the gender perspective and considered the lgbti community as a marginalized community. that's why i couldn't support the report.
in writing. children are not born with feelings of hatred towards others, these are emotions and behaviors that are formed as we grow up. it is therefore important to promote tolerance, equality and openness from an early age. people of different cultures, nations and views should come together as often as possible and learn that we are all human beings, with similar aspirations and concerns, and that only through dialogue and cooperation can we achieve this. the ep resolution aims to continue the dialogue agreed by education ministers after the november attacks in paris. the agreement recognises the need to make joint efforts to prevent and combat marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to pursue equal opportunities for all. the ep resolution proposes concrete recommendations for action at all levels, including increasing the use of culture in external action and eu development programmes, and underlines the particular role of science, culture and active civil society in building a strong, resilient and open european society in the future. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's core values.
in writing. ‒ the report by julie ward comes at a very opportune time, as europe is faced with the question of how to deal with the problems of cultural exchanges, which very often result from simple ignorance, in the face of the wave of refugees. the role of intercultural dialogue in promoting the eu's core values should be strongly emphasised in this context. nor is there any doubt about the role that culture itself can play in the eu's external relations. a good knowledge of cultural realities, with a full understanding of their diversity, is an element that can prevent crises and a highly effective tool in resolving conflicts and promoting peace. the key element needed to achieve this will be the development of skills through the inclusion of relevant content in educational programmes, the provision of training and workshops. however, effective intercultural dialogue also requires financial support. i would therefore like to reiterate the importance of providing adequate funding for existing excellent examples of support for cultural exchange and intercultural dialogue, in the context of eu programmes such as erasmus+ and the partnership of cities funded by the europe for citizens programme. it is important that in the process of fighting for cultural diversity and education on the fundamental freedoms of europe, attention should be paid to improving the awareness and knowledge of not only the hosts but also the guests.
in writing. ‒ the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's core values is an attempt to summarise the legislative work on financial services, to address the gaps in the financial services legislative process and to highlight the resulting problems. the report also highlighted the effects of the individual legislative measures and the lack of a proper analysis of their interrelationships, as well as the lack of a full assessment of the overall impact of the legislation as a whole. i fully agree with the rapporteur that one of the main challenges for financial services regulation is the global competitiveness of eu legislation and eu financial sectors. the quality of regulation in the financial services sector is also important, and depends on the coordination, timeliness and transparency of the legislative process. i think that this initiative is justified and i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is an attempt to summarise the legislative work on financial services, to address the shortcomings identified in the financial services lawmaking process and to draw attention to the resulting problems. in particular, it drew attention to the effects of individual legislative measures and the lack of a proper analysis of their interlinkages, as well as the lack of a full assessment of the overall effects of the overall provisions. it also addressed important new initiatives by the european commission, such as the investment package and the capital markets union, and indicated ways to achieve better results by building on existing financial services regulations that function effectively and efficiently. the rapporteur also believes that one of the main challenges for financial services regulation is the global competitiveness of eu legislation and eu financial sectors. the rapporteur notes that the quality of financial services regulation also depends on the coordination, timeliness and transparency of the legislative process. although the report touched on difficult topics such as the completion of the banking union and the participation of euro-area and non-euro-area member states, the rapporteur managed to find neutral language, which is why i have improved the report.
in writing. ‒ during the financial and economic crisis, the european union produced, under enormous time pressure, countless new rules and regulations on financial services, more than all previous financial services regulations combined. of course, the changes were necessary, given that the financial sector was the one that started the financial crisis in 2008. however, we should now look carefully at what goals have been achieved, which regulations are actually working, and which have been introduced too hastily and proved ineffective. the european parliament's report duly drew attention to the need to examine the consistency, accuracy, proportionality, added value and economic impact of financial services regulation. parliament also called on the european commission to prepare a comprehensive impact assessment of the new rules before the end of this year. it is essential to remove unnecessary provisions from eu legislation as soon as possible so that the european union can better serve its citizens and not create unnecessary barriers for consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the employment rate among them was less than 60% and was well below the europe 2020 target. in addition, most of those who are employed are part-time or in flexible forms of employment. one solution to this problem is to promote entrepreneurship among women. it should not be assumed that women do not want to be entrepreneurs, but rather that they are discouraged from doing so by external circumstances. the report we voted on indicates the obstacles that exist. however, i believe that the fundamental problem here is that there are still cultural constraints and that there are no real mechanisms to support women entrepreneurs. it seems, and the report emphasises this, that promoting social entrepreneurship would be a good solution. the available data show that women are much more likely to decide to start social enterprises, as they are more in line with their sensitivity and investment strategy. in turn, the experience gained in this sector of the economy will help some of them to move to the traditional economy sector. the added value is that social enterprises are much better able to respond to the challenges facing the eu economy and labour market today. europe will only benefit if we focus more on the social economy, both in terms of the level of employment for women and in terms of the instruments to address growing socio-economic problems.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship can be defined as a character trait, a set of skills, a way of thinking, planning and achieving one's goals. an enterprising person is ambitious, confident, and successful in pursuing his goals. in the labour sector, entrepreneurship most often means pursuing one's own interest company, partnership, enterprise as opposed to being employed by an employer. the eurobarometer data show that the entrepreneurship rate in the european union (12%) is still half that of china or the us (27% and 21% respectively), despite the elevation of entrepreneurship to a political priority. moreover, only one third of europeans who are self-employed are women. at the same time, women are more likely than men to start businesses this can be explained by the desire to reconcile work and private life, as self-employment is usually more flexible in terms of working hours, holidays and work at home opportunities. barriers to women entrepreneurship should therefore be removed, as stereotypes such as lower skills or lower resilience among women result in a lack of trust on the part of some entities, such as banks, which refuse to grant investment credit. such even superstitious thinking can still discourage women from starting their own businesses and lead to discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report by barbara matera on the external factors hindering women's entrepreneurship in europe. women are less likely than men to participate in the labour market and to run their own businesses, and if they do, they are smaller and run in less profitable sectors. this is compounded by the large number of quasi-firms, created through the forced self-employment of women, who de facto perform work under the supervision of the employer. the report rightly points to the low availability of care services as a major barrier to entrepreneurship, but also to the disproportionate burden of housework on women. the report, citing the barcelona objectives including the availability of childcare services at a level covering at least 90% of children of school age, calls on member states to further invest in childcare infrastructure, which is a key tool for reconciling family and work responsibilities. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to review the law to eliminate the disadvantage of women entrepreneurs to wage workers, to invest in training, projects to create networks of women entrepreneurs, to offer monitoring and exchange of good practices and to combat gender stereotypes as key actions to promote female entrepreneurship. promoting female entrepreneurship, especially among the 45+ age group, is not only important for the quality of life of the women involved, but also through the use of their experience and work has a positive impact on the overall economy.
in writing. ‒ promoting entrepreneurship, which has always been at the top of the european union's political agenda, is becoming particularly important in an era of slow economic growth and the need to create new jobs. there is also no doubt that the freedom to conduct a business should be equally available to both sexes. unfortunately, women currently represent only 31% of entrepreneurs in the eu. this situation is directly linked to the existing barriers to women's full participation in economic life. to improve this situation, the ep report includes proposals for childcare and care for the elderly to help women entrepreneurs to reach their full potential and achieve a work-life balance. another issue highlighted in the report is the need to increase funding opportunities for women entrepreneurs. research shows that women use fewer external resources, such as bank loans, than men and tend to use more expensive internal financing. less capital, on the other hand, often means simply less chance of success. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the ep report on the external factors hindering european women's entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 19 january 2016 on external obstacles to female entrepreneurship in europe (2015/2111 (ini)). entrepreneurship is essential for economic growth, employment, innovation and poverty eradication. the decision to enter the business world by women is the result of a clash of internal motives, including psychological and external factors, based on socio-economic determinants. the female entrepreneurship rate, which reflects female entrepreneurship in eu countries, stood at 31% in 2014. studies in this area are conducted much less frequently in women than in men. this is also why i support the establishment of a specialised institutional unit for women's activities in the eu. its tasks would be to support initiatives ranging from updating competitiveness information to introducing and verifying high tech. the so-called 'pre-incubators' are no less important. this project provides support for pre-business start-up and for the introduction of specialised training or exchange of experience among potential stakeholders. this would allow direct interactions to take place, resulting in a network of long-term business partnerships.
in writing. ‒ 5 million young people out of work, while 2 million vacancies are one of the eu's biggest challenges. the report clearly shows that skills development is a multi-dimensional process requiring a holistic approach and more flexible education systems that would allow for the development of knowledge and skills at all stages of a career. given the differences between labour markets in the member states, it is necessary to identify which level of management has the most effective tools to identify and describe skills needs. the report also called for the promotion of best practices and the integration of young people with disabilities in education and employment through investment in social entrepreneurship or financial incentives for organisations that employ them. it was also stressed that employment offices should be more active in removing physical barriers to access for disabled people to their services. young people without a job are one of the eu's biggest pain points and challenges that's why i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ developing skills at all stages of a career is essential in today's world to get a good job. any changes in the training process should be adapted to the current needs of the labour market. i support skills strategies to combat youth unemployment. in particular, any attempt to improve science programmes and to promote the integration of young people with disabilities in education and employment is, in my view, essential in combating youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on skills to tackle youth unemployment because i believe it is a good indicator of the key issues to address if we want to develop young people's potential to work in an innovative economy. first of all, the report highlights a major problem facing the european labour market today: the large skills mismatch between young people and employers' expectations and needs. as a result, although there are several million job vacancies across europe, many young people remain unemployed. therefore, swift, decisive action is needed to remedy this situation. in his report, mr plura tackled the important issue of learning to be an entrepreneur from a very young age. self-employment and starting your own business has great potential in combating unemployment. moreover, entrepreneurial skills are universal, they shape entrepreneurship and help people to find and do almost any job. it also welcomes the fact that the report duly emphasises the need for cooperation and coordination at all levels between education and training institutions, employers and non-governmental organisations. focus should also be placed on optimising the use of the instruments available at eu level: the youth guarantee, financial instruments and cohesion policy support.
in writing. ‒ in the labour market, young people are the first victims of the economic crisis. according to scientific research, the unemployment rate for the under-25 age group is very high in the eu countries: in its august 2015 publications, eurostat indicates that it is 20.4%, and in the euro area countries it is as high as 22.3%. germany (7%) has the lowest youth unemployment rate and is the only country where unemployment does not exceed 10%. the countries with the highest unemployment rates are the four southern european countries: spain (48.8%), greece (48.3%), croatia (43.5%) and italy (40.7%). in 2012, the european union responded to this problem with a plan called the 'eu employment package' to help young people access the labour market through a variety of measures. it is a series of guidelines to support job creation and improve employment policies. the main objectives of the programme are to reduce taxation of workers, increase net profit, create new jobs by mobilising eu funds, promote training adapted to the labour market and remove legal and practical obstacles to the free movement of workers. the package also covers the creation of a european labour market, economic development, promotion and support for self-employment, modern enterprises and start-ups. the report by our colleague, mr plura, supports these ideas, and i am also in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ education, including entrepreneurship, is a key element in tackling youth unemployment. however, education must be subject to market expectations and opportunities so that young graduates or vocational school pupils are able to enter the labour market more quickly and effectively. to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure closer cooperation between the education sector and business, and to involve young people and organisations representing their interests in actions to improve their situation on the labour market. the ep report rightly emphasises the need to promote high-quality traineeships or dual education, which gives young people the skills they need to pursue a profession and put them into practice. as has been well noted, a new generation brought up in an era of rapid technological advancement has different talents, expectations, and abilities than previous generations. it is therefore important that member states adapt their employment policies to the changing reality. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the ep's strategy on skills to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the changing macroeconomic situation in the world makes it increasingly difficult to keep up with the expectations of a rapidly changing labour market. in line with the eu youth strategy, the european parliament points to close cooperation between institutions at local, regional, national, european and member state levels. it is considered appropriate that youth policy must be based on the promotion of activity, entrepreneurship, enhanced competence, mobility and flexibility in the potential labour market. the proposed measures to combat unemployment should be based on the facilitation of the harmonization of the education system while allowing for the possibility of being an active person. this is why the initiative to modernise the education system should be taken, and thus to adapt the curricula to the current and future labour market forecasts. another equally important element is the promotion of self-employment. actions to support initiatives and support individuals. the young people's community should have the opportunity to acquire and develop the necessary knowledge to set up their own businesses, to obtain financial resources, and to be able to meet their professional goals productively.
in writing. ‒ i support the report prepared by the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. this is an important report because we still have 24 million unemployed in europe, including 7.5 million young people who are neither in education nor in work. at the same time, there are over 2 million unfilled jobs in the european union. similar problems exist in poland and in my kujawsko-pomorskie province. many young people have qualifications that do not match the demands of the labour market. the report rightly emphasises the need for a more integrated education system with enterprises and institutions. there is also a need to develop wider skills in technology, engineering and mathematics, which are increasingly needed in a modern economy. in my view, eu measures to support education systems in individual countries and small and medium-sized enterprises should be a broader stream directed towards these very objectives.
in writing. ‒ the pace of the digital market has changed our reality and the way we look at industry and the competitiveness of european businesses. i see barriers in the organisation of the digital marketplace that are hindering their unfettered activity and further development. despite many obstacles, polish smes are making the most of this opportunity. however, the report contains a clause calling for the creation of a union-wide, common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which i cannot support, especially in a report in which competitiveness is one of the main premises. taxes are one of the most important prerogatives of any country and although there are elements of the fiscal system that are subject to eu coordination (vat), i want this tool of state policy to remain in polish hands. first of all, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu. i cannot agree to the introduction of a postulate on this occasion which would lead to the loss of the possibility of conducting an active fiscal policy and, as a result, to a decrease in the competitiveness of the polish economy.
in writing. ‒ the pace of the digital market has changed our reality and the way we look at industry and the competitiveness of european businesses. however, the report contains a clause calling for the creation of a union-wide common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which i cannot support, especially in a report in which competitiveness is one of the main prerequisites. firstly, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu, not on direct taxes, and this is one of the reasons why i cannot support a text that contains such a call. moreover, i cannot agree to a position which would lead to the loss of the ability to pursue an active fiscal policy and, as a result, to a decline in the competitiveness of the eu economies with the lowest cit rates. the argument that there is unfair competition in taxation within the union is an abuse and a one-sided interpretation of the situation by some member states, and the smaller member states would simply lose out on unification. finally, one of the reasons why i cannot support the inclusion of this provision in the final text is the result of past pressure on certain countries which have been accused of 'extremely harmful tax competition'. this is simply unacceptable to a sovereign member state with its own fiscal policy.
in writing. ‒ in the age of digital technologies, which are present in almost every aspect of our lives, legislation regulating the use, access and distribution of programmes and multimedia content is of great interest. after all, it is inevitable that this will affect, to a greater or lesser degree, almost all citizens, whether individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises, or large, multinational corporations. the effective use of digital technologies brings greater job opportunities, access to a wider range of products, diversified methods of rapid exchange of information and administrative simplifications. in may last year, the european commission published a communication entitled 'a digital single market strategy for europe' with 16 initiatives to be implemented by the end of 2016, which is supported and extended by the report we are voting on today. among them, the main emphasis was on harmonising the rules on online sales so that they apply in all member states, regardless of where goods are bought and sold. this 'cross-border' nature of the legislation will certainly make it easier for consumers to buy and possibly return or claim products. the digital single market should also mean a certain standard of quality for digital networks, the provision of internet access services and, in particular, the removal of restrictions on data transmission. it is difficult to imagine a future without access to the latest technologies, which is why we need to support digitalisation in all sectors of the economy.
in writing. ‒ the pace of the digital market has changed our reality and the way we look at industry and the competitiveness of european businesses. however, the report contains a clause calling for the creation of a union-wide common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which i cannot support, especially in a report in which competitiveness is one of the main prerequisites. firstly, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu, not on direct taxes, and this is one of the reasons why i cannot support a text that contains such a call. moreover, i cannot agree to a position which would lead to the loss of the ability to pursue an active fiscal policy and, as a result, to a decline in the competitiveness of the eu economies with the lowest cit rates. the argument that there is unfair competition in taxation within the union is an abuse and a one-sided interpretation of the situation by some member states, and the smaller member states would simply lose out on unification. finally, one of the reasons why i cannot support the inclusion of this provision in the final text is the result of past pressure on certain countries which have been accused of 'extremely harmful tax competition'. this is simply unacceptable to a sovereign member state with its own fiscal policy.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a digital single market is crucial for increasing competitiveness within the european union. the community must create opportunities to compete effectively for a leading role in the technological race with the united states and the asian countries. the introduction of changes to remove barriers in the digital market will boost economic growth and job creation in europe, which is estimated to add an additional €415 billion to the eu's gdp. but above all, the digital single market will serve europeans, both consumers and businesses, through actions such as the removal of geo-blocking, the guarantee of more transparent copyright rules, the introduction of facilitation in the cross-border parcel sector, the development of new business models, and finally the introduction of vat-related facilitation for cross-border sales. given the enormous importance of the digital single market for the economic development of the european union, i have decided to support the european parliament's report.
madam president! the council should identify terms that describe the link between the terrorist threat and migration policy in accordance with international law. the commission should review projects that risk glorifying terrorist activities i recall the recent shocking examples in palestine. and the third thing. the uk public is watching closely the relationship between the eu institutions and the member states. in my opinion, the debate on poland today increases the risk of brexit.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. postle, you have challenged the value of protecting the external borders and pursuing german domestic policy. if we were to abandon the strict protection of the external borders, what would be the countermeasure? what exactly are you proposing, because you've criticized others, but i haven't heard any positive response from the socialists. what is the message, what is the socialist response to this problem?
on behalf of the efdd group. prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! as the first polish mep to speak in this debate, i would like to emphasise strongly that polish issues should be resolved in poland and by poles. (laughter) (applause) that's why i regret that some people can't accept defeat and are pathetically denouncing their country. this debate is unnecessary, the motives for convening it are unclear, and the legal basis is questionable - as the prime minister mentioned in her speech. but despite our intentions, there are benefits to this debate. there is growing euroscepticism in europe. the italians, together with the socialist prime minister, germany and hungary, are increasingly speaking out against eu policies and institutions that are not doing what they are supposed to be doing. we poles have a very bad experience with foreign politicians interfering in our affairs. when over two hundred years ago russia, prussia, austria - and after the denunciation of a few prisoners - worried about the state of polish democracy, it ended with three partitions of poland and the loss of independence for one hundred and twenty-five years. in the last century, we barely escaped the communist system, where soviet commissars rushed to our aid. now it turns out that the european commissioners are helping. the best and safest thing for europe is for the poles themselves to deal with polish problems. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! thank you, mr. jarek, because we are very close in our thinking. i am speaking as a member of the europe of nations and freedom group, but also as a pole. as a pole, i'm not worried about foreign competition criticizing us, poland. it could mean that the polish authorities have taken some decisions or some actions that are clearly in line with the polish state interest and the polish national interest, so i should rather be happy about that. i'm not particularly worried about the opinions, both positive and negative, that are being expressed in this room, because they have no influence on the situation in poland we solve our problems there. the problem is that this debate is happening here. this is the problem of europe, because this debate is the ostentatious manifestation of the interference of external factors in the internal affairs of sovereign states and this is the disease of the european union. this debate says nothing because it can't say anything about the political condition of poland. but this debate speaks very clearly and very much about the disastrous political situation of the european union as a political project. it is an escape from all the real problems which the european union as such is incapable of solving. so speaking as a member of the europe of nations and freedom political group, i would like to stress and appeal to you to finally realize that this project has run its course, that it is now being run by a certain inertia. if europe is to recover its health, if it is to develop and ensure our security, we must devise a new formula for the coexistence of european, sovereign and independent states and this is our task and our duty to our homeland and our fellow citizens. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i'm not a democrat. i hate democracy, i despise democracy, but you are democrats. then take note that the polish people, legally and democratically, elected the pis. you wanted democracy, now you have it. democracy is the tyranny of the majority, so the pis, with the majority behind it, will do what it wants. if you think that pis is a very bad party - i agree with that - then think how bad the previous governments must have been, how huge was the corruption, theft, contempt for man and suppression of freedom of speech, which i personally experienced, that the oppressed polish people chose pis as the only party giving hope that the previous rulers go to prison, because that's where they belong. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
prime minister, mr president! i would like to raise four points. the first is language. i am pleased to note the tone and language used in this debate today. it is a tone so strong and persuasive that even the esteemed colleague verhofstadt has adapted to it, which i am very pleased about. i also wanted to say, to express the hope that this language will be preserved, because what we have been dealing with so far, was an unprecedented linguistic aggression that was carried out in the polish government before this government was established, which is a kind of world record. there were allegations that were damaging to language and communication. if you say that there was a coup d'état in poland, it means that the person who says it does not understand the meaning of the words he uses, or he changes the meaning on purpose. (laughter) (applause) the second thing is facts. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i read a document that came out after the college of commissioners met, and it's a bad document. my question is, where does the commission get its facts? who is giving you this information, who is doing the legal analysis? the description of the facts leaves much to be desired, but what surprises me most is that the information came from representatives of the polish government earlier. there's no record of that information, just like you'd throw it all away. then where do you get your information? from the media? how does it happen? how can such a document be produced on which to base a decision? (laughter) (applause) gentlemen, admit that you are wrong about the facts. that's the truth. the third thing i wanted to talk about is the double standard. unfortunately, this is a chronic, deep-seated and potentially fatal disease that is plaguing the european union. chairman pittell and chairman harms were just talking about the demonstrations, how their hearts are with the protesters. ladies and gentlemen, over the last eight years, there have been many, many more demonstrations in poland. your hearts were not bleeding, and i did not hear in this room mrs. harms, mr. pittell or anyone else expressing solidarity with these crowds of people. (applause) they were here, they were in strasbourg, they were in brussels right in front of the parliament building. did anyone from your department go out and talk about what they're all about, maybe some people who have something important to say? ladies and gentlemen, for the last eight years in poland, and i'd like to take this as a relevant, i would even say crucial information, we have been dealing in poland with a kind of one-party state. it was a one-party state, which means that one party controlled virtually all the institutions. (laughter) (applause) i'm hearing from you all of a sudden today that this isn't a personal matter. if my party were to put 14 judges on a 15-member constitutional court, hell would break loose in this chamber. and i hear that nothing happened because it's personal. (laughter) (applause) where were you when the mass expulsion of journalists from the public media took place? all of them! you heard exactly what you heard. all but one have been removed. very quickly. so, what, where was the reaction? there was no reaction. unfortunately, these double standards show that in the european union, there are more equal countries and less equal countries. there are more equal parties and less equal parties. if this continues, we will not be the victims here, but the european union will be. by doing so, you are acting against the european union. and the last thing is the overreach. mr president, commissioner, you know very well that the instrument you have used is a legally suspect instrument. the council's legal services have criticised it in a fundamental way, it has no good justification in the treaties, some say it has no justification in the treaties at all. the state here in parliament is planning to pass some kind of resolution. i hear there's going to be a fact-finding, so the resolution has to be made before the fact-finding, which means you already know exactly what the problem is. then why investigate the facts? in other words, this whole action, as well as the structure, seems to me not only - and you said that - not only an excess of competence, because the european commission will not say what majority the constitutional court in poland is to decide, but from your words it follows that this is to be a kind of precedent. you want to take over this kind of competence that is not yours, and by the facts, to be able to act in this way, i would say not quite legal, also in the future and that is also very bad. (laughter) (applause)
prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! poland is our common good, the good of all poles, and we must take care of it. we are proud of our country and the actions of poles, who have been held up as a model on the european stage in recent years, although in many cases they differed in the directions of action proposed by other countries. today we regret that poland is becoming the subject of public debate in europe. this is the first time in the history of our membership of the union. hopefully for the last time. the prime minister knows very well that we did not initiate or want to organize this debate in the european parliament. this debate, regardless of its outcome, will unfortunately affect poland's image on the international stage. we know you won the last parliamentary elections in poland. we do not question the outcome of democratic elections or the right to make changes that result from different political agendas. you often say in this country that the winner takes all. if you think so, then it is obvious that this means that the winner not only takes control of state institutions, of positions, but also is fully responsible for changes made in the rule of law, if there are no threats here, which you know that this is our view, and the winner also takes responsibility for the image of poland in europe and in the world. he's also taking responsibility for this debate. the people of poland and poland do not deserve actions that raise such controversy. we're very sorry about this.
prime minister of poland. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! thank you so much for all the votes. they are important, very important, and i think that in all these voices there is a fundamental thing that should be reflected in this room: concern for the european union, for its future, for its shape. poland wants the european union to be stable, poland wants the european union not to be shaken by various kinds of crises. poland is not causing these crises, but poland wants to actively participate in european policy making in a way that will allow us to avoid them. thank you for all the critical voices, for all the voices, including those who expressed support for my country and my government. it's very important to us. i came to you to share information and i feel that i tried to use this first speech to give you detailed facts about two issues that many of you are questioning, namely the constitutional court issue and the media law issue. i also have to be honest with you, i thought you would have specific questions in your speeches on these matters, but there were not many. i can imagine that this is because there is simply no problem, so you have nothing to ask, and our discussion is a problem for all of us, which was also pointed out here by professor legutka. it is a problem, and i have a problem with it because i do not agree that the european commission should apply the decision it has taken to poland. but i am open to information, i believe that the future of the european union is the overriding value and that all of us, as members of this great body, should ensure that the institutions that make up the european union work as well as possible, and above all, we must be very courageous in discussing their competences. that's why i'm willing to share all the information, as i have done before. and if you'll allow me, i'll repeat some important facts that i think you may have missed in my earlier remarks. i believe that poland does not deserve to be assessed by the european commission at this time, because in poland neither human rights nor the principles of the democratic rule of law are being violated, and all the things that are being implemented in poland at this time are being implemented in accordance with the constitution, laws and treaties of the european union. we are a sovereign nation, we are a free people. i'll add this digression, that in the polish parliament, in the tribunes, you can clap whether you express your satisfaction or not, so that's where we differ, but this is the feeling of freedom, the deep sense of freedom of the polish people. in the polish parliament, the public can also speak and express their emotions. we love our freedom, we try to guard it like the apple of our eye, because we have paid too much for it. we learned from our history, which was also discussed here, that polish affairs should be handled in our polish home, because whenever others handled them for us, we did very badly. and it is my concern that we do not bring here issues on which i do not claim that there is no political dispute between us, because after all, political dispute is the basis of democratic debate, is the basis of democracy, but let's hold this dispute where there is a place for it in the polish parliament. let's take this argument to where it belongs. the best proof that the polish state is a democratic state is that even the polish citizens who are coming here at this moment in the european parliament during this debate can express their dissatisfaction with the actions of the government without hindrance during the demonstrations that were organized, no one bothered them. poland is a democratic country. i come to you today as the prime minister of a democratic country, concerned that we should work together to develop a model of how we operate in the european union and that we should not have to have debates of this kind, which i believe are not justified at the moment. i also come here, ladies and gentlemen, because i have a deep sense of responsibility not only for what is happening in poland, but i have a deep sense of responsibility for what is happening in europe. you talk about migration - it's a serious problem - and you know it very well. poland has taken in about a million refugees from ukraine, people that nobody wanted to help, they are here today and we are helping them, and we need to talk about that, but poland and the polish government, because we respect the rule of law and we respect the decisions taken by the previous government, are ready to participate in this further. we are participating in the debate and the process that the european union is currently developing on migration. we can deal with this, and we must all answer it, both we and you, and especially here in this place, in the european parliament, because that is what the citizens of europe who are concerned about their security expect from you today. let's work on this. this is very important, this is a big challenge for europe. i don't want people in my country, poland, to be afraid, to have anti-european fears. let us do everything we can to ensure that europe develops in peace and is a community of sovereign, equal, justly governed states. the polish government will not abandon the program we committed to the voters. there was a democratic election, the poles chose this program, they chose us. we won the elections, but we won them because the poles decided to do so, and we will implement this program that the poles are waiting for, because very often they have the feeling that there has not been enough justice for all citizens. we want a poland that is just, fair and equally governed for all, a poland of equal opportunities, a poland of development. it's very important for us, for the poles, to compete with these best developing countries in europe. we want all the countries of central and eastern europe to have the same opportunities. we are young members of the european union, we entered the european union with the baggage of our history, we all came from central and eastern europe, but we came with great hope. we came to a europe that was a dream for us, a great vision of freedom, fairness and equality, and that is the europe we want to be in. it's not easy, we have many difficulties, we have many barriers to overcome, but we want to do it, we are determined. poland needs to work hard today to heal the country, which must protect the weak and not be afraid of the strong. this was said by the late and tragic leader of our community, president lech kaczyński. this is how he defined the challenges facing poland. these challenges are still present and ahead of us, and st. john paul ii, the great pole, the great european, said, "do not be afraid". let us not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, to build an equal, fair europe. let's do this together, together. let us do everything we can to ensure that every european feels that he or she has equal opportunities and is treated equally. poland doesn't deserve to be censored today. i will remind you again that in the case of the constitutional tribunal, we had to change the law because the previous government in june 2015 forwarded the draft law, i.e. accelerated work on the draft law, which, interestingly, was submitted in 2013, but for two years nothing was done, only after the elections lost by the previous president the procedure was accelerated. the constitution was violated, as the constitutional court ruled. we want to bring about equal rights, so that the opposition has a majority in the constitutional court. that's our proposal. you talk about the media after all, the same principles that we are currently building the media in poland on are, for example, in italy and other european countries. you know this because it is your home that is doing nothing that is not done in other european countries. we can discuss many issues today that are important, but i think that - i'll say it again - we have a problem with this debate, because the polish government in 2014, led by the current president donald tusk, who was then prime minister, also expressed concerns and doubts about this new framework defined by the european commission, and the polish government in its opinion, also based on the opinions of polish analysts, polish lawyers, but above all the legal services of the european council, said that these new institutional frameworks, previously presented by the european services, are unacceptable for the polish government. we have a problem with that, ladies and gentlemen, and we need to solve it. i may feel unfair today that poland is the subject of this experiment, but i am here and i believe that it is my duty towards poland, towards the polish state that i have the honour to lead, but also towards the european parliament, towards the european commission, to come here and to explain in substance how things are going in poland, because this is what we all need today, but above all it is what is needed to build the authority of the european union and the european institutions. (laughter) (applause)
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i am pleased to note that mr gonzález pons said: 'there is no other empire in europe than the empire of law'. even mrs. zimmer said, "it's not about democracy, it's about upholding the law". and rightly so. either we have democracy or we have the rule of law, because oftentimes, the law demands one thing, and the majority demands something else, and you have to make a choice. i have spoken about this a hundred times, several times in this parliament. in poland, we have a perfect illustration. when someone raised the issue that the changes in the constitutional court were against the law, pis activists said: well, we are democratically elected, and the judges are not. i am for the rule of law, for the independence of the courts, but do you know that under the previous government, the president of this court wrote a letter to the prime minister asking whether laws could be declared unconstitutional. and it was a legal requirement. but for the law to be valid, it must be clear and understandable. unfortunately, in poland under the occupation of the european union, the law has become completely unclear and incomprehensible, and besides, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is not the place to discuss poland's political or legal dilemmas. these dilemmas have been, are and will be considered within the framework of the polish state institutions, so please, more peace, more joy, more optimism, more faith in europe. such powers have never been seen before. there was the great, eternal roman empire, there was the great soviet union and they're gone, and asia exists. if the european union were to go down in the history books, europe would still exist. it is a matter of a few dozen nations, after all, which want only one thing: freedom and justice, so i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put aside our ridiculous disputes and think of europe. if there is anyone here who cares about the prosperity of europe, let him think about what he can do to avoid meddling in every country, every industry, every company, every family, and finally, every man's affairs. let the people live free and prosper. let europe be the europe of nations, freedom and justice. thank you! let us have faith in europe! and if i can say more, because i see that my time is not up, then, ladies and gentlemen, i am very glad that this debate has provoked common sense in this room, because we have been mired in our own disputes, which are detached from the reality of life around us and in all of europe and in our countries from which we have come, so if this common sense prevails and this debate starts to be about the realities, the problems of europe, then we will surely be a nation of smiling, content, prosperous, secure people.
on behalf of the efdd group. prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! in poland, the situation is normal and i say this as a representative of the opposition. parliamentary democracy works, i have to say, unfortunately, by subscribing to what both my predecessors have said. today's debate is mainly about the limits of the european commission's and the european institutions' powers. we are dealing with a continuous shifting of these boundaries, with the addition of new competences which have no justification in eu law. the european commission is creating itself as a super-government, the head of all the heads, the overseer of national governments. it must be said clearly: the european commission is not allowed to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign nation states. keep the good advice of german or belgian politicians to yourself. deal with your problems, the unemployment that is destroying your societies, the immigrants that are destroying your cultures and humiliating your women, the economic crisis caused by the stupidity of your politicians. prime minister! please accept my congratulations on your performance today. i am convinced that the future of poland lies in the hands of poles and depends on us. happy birthday to you!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have two primary enemies. one enemy is ignorance, and the other enemy is prejudice. it's very difficult to fight prejudice even with arithmetic, because it's not that if you have a constitutional court with a nine-to-six ratio and it's supposed to be a certain number of people and there's a constitutional majority, then that court is blocked. this is some complete nonsense. it's just an absurdity that doesn't deserve to be answered. there's nothing wrong with that design, and no matter how arithmetically you rotate it, you can't prove it, because it's a perfectly rational and normal design. and the question is also: is this court, which is more representative and does not allow arbitrary decision-making by five judges as it was before, is this court better or worse? well, the court is superior in standards, and there's no argument that can disprove that. this is just a better court. ladies and gentlemen, i'd like to hear an argument to counter that, because i don't know one. he might be out there, but i don't know him. and the media thing: are we now having better media or worse? do we have one narrative, as we have been doing, or do we have many narratives? well, we have a lot of narratives, now we have a lot of narratives. what about those journalists who were thrown out eight years ago? they're coming back. does that mean we don't have to accept them because there's going to be one narrative again?
in writing. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has the power to trigger procedures to take action in the event of systemic threats to the rule of law in an eu member state. on this basis, it started last week the process of monitoring the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in poland. this is a new procedure that came into effect in 2014. as the european community is concerned about the actions of the polish government, including hastily adopted laws that do not take into account public consultation, such as those concerning the constitutional court or public media, a parliamentary debate with the participation of the prime minister of the polish government beata szydlo was necessary. i am pleased with the willingness of the polish authorities to have serious talks and to explain the decisions taken by the pis government, as well as the openness to dialogue declared by the prime minister both in poland and in the eu arena. i hope it's not just an empty formula. i hope that for the good of all poles, the sejm majority will now be willing to cooperate with the opposition as well. for us meps, the key issue is to maintain poland's very good reputation in europe, which is the result of the work of many governments and built up by the great effort of poles, which political turmoil can irrevocably damage. i hope that the controversial actions of the government can still be corrected and that the next step in the procedure under article 7 of the eu treaty, which provides for the imposition of sanctions on a member state that affect citizens more than governments, will not be taken.
in writing. in october 2015, polish citizens elected a new government in free, democratic elections. it was a sovereign decision of the polish people, which should be respected and which obliges us, the ruling party, to carry out the changes announced in the election campaign. a change based on the inalienable values of freedom, equality, justice and sovereignty, which will give a new and proper direction to the development of our country. all actions of the polish government shall be undertaken in compliance with the polish constitution and with polish and european law. the polish constitution, the first in europe, is particularly important for poles and the constitutional court, which is called upon to protect it, works properly. the changes introduced by the government in the media law are necessary to restore pluralism to polish media. the european commission has exceeded its powers by interfering in the exclusive powers of the polish government and in poland's internal affairs. especially since it has been difficult to draw the ec's attention to poland so far. it did not react during the last 8 years of the po-psl coalition government, when new cases were revealed every moment destabilizing the situation in the country, or right-wing journalists were removed en masse from public media, nor did it react to requests for help in determining the causes of the smolensk disaster, despite the fact that almost a million polish citizens turned to the european parliament with such petitions. i would once again urge caution in assessing the internal situation in poland.
in writing. i am sorry and saddened to learn that, in the wake of the controversy surrounding the legislative decisions of the recently established government of law and justice in poland and the european commission's initiation of the rule of law review procedure on that occasion, there has been a debate in the european parliament on concerns about the respect of democratic principles in poland. i regret that poland, until recently a european bully, bringing to the eu a vibrant economy, energy, freshness of vision and, above all, genuine support for the european community, is becoming a matter of concern and concern for the other member states. i hope that the statements made by prime minister beata szydlo during the debate about her pride in being part of the european community will be seen as decisions in which the polish government will maintain a pro-european course and poland will again become active in building a strong, united europe. at the same time, i apologize to all my colleagues in the european parliament, who have been flooded for weeks with hundreds of emails from supporters of the current government, for the content and form of these letters. i assure you they are not representative of polish society.
in writing. - prime minister! i would like to take this opportunity to inform you that you are taking part in the european parliament's debate on the rule of law in poland. i would ask you to answer the following questions, which have already been raised by the commission and parliament: why is president andrzej duda breaking the constitution by not swearing in three constitutionally elected judges? 2. why does law and justice (pis) not withdraw from the bill to amend the constitutional tribunal, which paralyzes its work and disrupts the checks and balances mechanism? how does the law and justice party intend to ensure media objectivity and reliability when the amendment to the radio and television act provides for the full subordination of public media to the ruling camp? i regret to say that you have unfortunately not addressed the doubts raised by the commission and parliament. these institutions have not been able to answer the fundamental questions, so it must be considered that the prime minister has not been successful in explaining the controversial changes introduced by the government that she represents.
in writing. the high chamber! thank you for your interest in poland despite the great problems in europe, especially in germany. i have three questions for president juncker: first, what are the treaty grounds for initiating a commission investigation against poland? article 7 does not contain such a basis, nor do the other articles. secondly, i believe that the initiation of the procedure against poland is not the result of the newspapers, but of the in-depth legal analysis of the commission. who did the analysis, and when will you present it? thirdly, the polish constitutional court has a majority of judges elected by the opposition, it rules by a two-thirds majority, in the order of the cases' entry. what's wrong with that? what is the polish tribunal worse than the luxembourg tribunal, which your country is about to abolish? you heard about that? why can luxembourg even abolish its tribunal sovereignly, and poland cannot change its tribunal? explain this double standard to the europeans. and for new year's eve next year, i invite you to poland. it's democratic, nice and safe!
mr. chairman, please! your highness! the agreement of 23 september on the establishment of a special peace court and the agreement of 15 december on the victims of the civil war in colombia, concluded between representatives of the government in bogota and the farc guerrillas, represent a significant step forward in the peace negotiations that have been ongoing for three years. fifty years of civil war have claimed hundreds of thousands of lives, mostly civilians. the conflict has forced millions of people to flee their homes. torture, kidnapping, and the forced recruitment of children into the military were commonplace in these regions. the september and december havana agreements on the special tribunal and compensation and identification of all victims of the conflict should therefore be welcomed. in 2016 - this year, the year of the final peace agreement - that makes it very likely. after the civil war is over, help will be needed for the regions devastated by the war. the european union's action in favour of sustainable development in colombia and in support of the poorest provinces of the country, and its impact on the development of government and civil administration in regions where there is little or no central government jurisdiction, is therefore important.
mr president, colombia is a shameful example of a situation where some people think they can impose their conditions on others by force, by violence. it is also a memento: these 45 years of civil war, these almost a quarter of a million killed, these seven million injured, it is a memento for many countries around the world, also for many politicians and political parties in europe, who think that force can change reality, force can act against their own state and their own people. we all in europe should look at these countries and point to them as a bad example, but on the other hand, of course, we should be glad that both the european union and the united states, and even countries like cuba, have contributed to the fact that we are perhaps on the verge of peace, and may we be, may we achieve peace.
on behalf of the ecr group. fellow students and colleagues! i would like to thank mrs griesbeck very much for her work on the report on strengthening the presumption of innocence and for the good result it has produced, because the report is a compromise and rational version of the report and indeed opens up the prospect of strengthening this key principle of criminal law in the criminal legal systems of the member states. after the fall of communism, poland, when it became a free state, built a criminal law based on the presumption of innocence and honoring it. the main elements and advantages of this report are listed. i don't want to repeat them. i want to make it very clear that we support the report as it has come out of the tripartite talks. we reject all amendments. they are dangerous, risky and risk paralysing criminal proceedings. so the eec group will support the report as recommended by mrs griesbeck, as it has come out of the trialogue. the amendments, as i mentioned, contain a number of ideas that are irrational from the point of view of the effectiveness of the criminal law. we are waiting for other criminal law directives, especially the anti-terrorism directive, which is important for the security of european citizens. i hope that both the council and the european parliament will start work on this directive very soon.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the dutch presidency is a period in which two important issues will be decided. firstly, the european parliament will be working on its position on the revision of the financial perspective during the dutch presidency. we are aware that the european commission has the right to take the first step, but parliament will not wait and will be ready for this in june or so. i therefore draw your attention to this and hope that the dutch presidency - even if it is not on the agenda - will be a partner in these talks. secondly, the dutch presidency's interest in cities and urban areas is important. the urban affairs group is following the preparatory work and the activities of the dutch presidency with great interest. i am thinking of the issues on the city agenda, but also of the preparations for the meeting in amsterdam, which is to result in the 'amsterdam pact' document. the announcements and the first draft of this document are very interesting, interesting and show that the dutch presidency is drawing attention to one of the most serious problems of the european union, namely the issues of cities and urban areas and the opportunities and problems that arise in this field. we look forward to the dutch presidency's concrete proposals on cities.
mr president, prime minister, please! it is not difficult to say what the priorities of the dutch presidency should be today, because the problems to be solved by the european union are too many. of course, we are all aware of which of these is the subject of the greatest attention of the citizens of the union today. it is the need to find a reasonable compromise on the immigration crisis - a compromise that will replace the current policy of forced relocation. we're smarter today than we were in paris. we know the plight of drivers in the calais region or we already know, despite attempts at self-censorship by the media, what happened on new year's eve in cologne and other european cities. it's worth it to use that experience. i would also like to say to our dutch partners that one thing they certainly do not have to worry about in the workload, although they probably already know this after yesterday's debate in this house.
the question asked by raising the blue card. protection of the union's external borders do you not think that before we look for new instruments, we should first of all continue our policy of combating illegal immigration, combating it at sea and, more specifically, as we have promised, combating it where the trafficking mafia operates? so far, our actions have been very calculating, and not just naval actions, but even diplomatic actions to get a un mandate on this. do you agree with me?
mr president, prime minister, please! the presidency always has its ambitious priorities, and then life verifies its real goals. i think the first thing the presidency will have to deal with is the issue of migration, and in particular the sealing of the external border of the european union. this is a necessary condition for the maintenance of the free movement of persons and goods, and thus of the entire common market, and for the maintenance of the schengen area. the potential costs of dismantling the schengen area for citizens, businesses, the transport sector and many others have been presented by president juncker, among others. the second key political issue will be the negotiations with the united kingdom and the potential brexit. the changes negotiated will have repercussions not only on the eu-uk relationship but also on the future of the union as a whole. it is important to remember that they are acceptable to all members, all parties and all countries and that they do not undermine the foundations on which the european union is based, for example the right to social benefits of those who work as migrants in the uk. thirdly, we need to answer the question of what to do with european climate policy after the paris cop. the european union has the most advanced climate policy, but not everyone shares it. we want to be the leader, but not everyone wants to admit it. the summit's decisions mean that it is time to put this policy into practice, which does not mean that we should not be ambitious, but that too much ambition will often harm the economy, for example through carbon leakage, which threatens the european union's industry. fourthly, i wanted to draw attention to the need to work on a circular economy package - a project with great potential to significantly reshape the union's economy. and fifth, a review of the multiannual financial framework. the question is, are we going to stick to the old rules? will there be pressure to make irrational changes?
in writing. the current political and economic situation in europe presents a number of challenges for the dutch presidency, which will require the european union to take balanced, solidarity-based and wise action. i am pleased that it includes issues that i believe are particularly important, such as the announcement of actions in the field of simplification of legislation or the development of the energy union. in the first place, we have recently adopted a resolution on simplification in cohesion policy, the introduction of which is a necessary factor in increasing the effectiveness of the impact of this policy. i hope the presidency will take the recommendations contained in it into account. i also welcomed the fact that the presidency has identified the further development of the energy union and the reduction of the union's energy dependence as one of its priorities. in this respect, i am counting on the monitoring of the construction of nord stream 2, which is in conflict with these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the launch of automated data exchange in latvia for vehicle registration data. latvia has fully implemented the guidelines of the above-mentioned project and has successfully conducted a pilot programme with the netherlands. the automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data is of particular importance in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is one of the fundamental human rights, reflected in national legal systems as well as in international law. this principle is the key to avoiding abuse in criminal proceedings. unfortunately, despite the existence of the presumption of innocence in the national criminal systems of the member states for centuries, there are still cases of violation of this principle. harmonisation of the right to the presumption of innocence will ensure minimum standards of fair trial throughout the european union. this will strengthen the rights of european citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is the completion of one of the three technical adaptation procedures updating the legislation applicable to personal protective equipment, ropeways and gas appliances products against the new legal framework. the new legal framework will bring about a broad harmonisation of the obligations of manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities, reducing administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty for all those involved in the manufacture and supervision of products placed on the eu market. reducing administrative burdens - i am in favour of this. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ this report is the final piece of work on the three technical adaptation procedures adapting to the new legal framework the provisions applicable to products in the field of personal protective equipment, ropeways and gas appliances. the new legal framework has largely harmonised the obligations of manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities, which will reduce the administrative burden and increase legal certainty for all those involved in the manufacture and supervision of products placed on the eu market. as regards gas appliances, i particularly agree with the requirements for maintenance by professional service personnel and the wording used in relation to carbon monoxide poisoning. the agreed text avoided the introduction of professional maintenance obligations for all gas appliances, including gas cookers for tourists, which are designed to be partly serviced by users, relying instead on national rules to provide a more common sense solution. as regards carbon monoxide poisoning, i fully support the work carried out by the rapporteur in this area to raise awareness of this problem. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the gas sector is vital to the eu economy and citizens, employing up to half a million europeans not only in the energy sector but also in the manufacture of gas-fired equipment. it is worth noting that gas is used in both very simple portable kitchen appliances and the most technologically advanced industrial boilers. the proposed regulation aims to harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market and putting into service of equipment burning gaseous fuels. this regulation lays down not only the obligations of the manufacturers of these products but also those of importers and distributors. it is hoped that the introduction of this regulation may help to reduce the losses resulting from the use of defective or defective gas-burning appliances.
in writing. ‒ this report summarises parliament's work on the three technical adaptation procedures adapting to the new legal framework the rules applicable to products in the field of personal protective equipment, ropeways and gas appliances. the new legal framework has largely harmonised the obligations of manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities, which will reduce the administrative burden and increase legal certainty for all those involved in the manufacture and supervision of products placed on the eu market. i believe that the report rightly points to the importance of protecting heritage funiculars before they are fully covered by the regulation, as spare parts for such heritage funiculars are made to measure and these facilities as such could not be covered by the tests referred to in the regulation without cost consequences that would likely prevent the continued operation of such funiculars. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the colombian government's peace talks with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia are of paramount importance to achieving stability in the country. i support the efforts of both sides to reach an agreement and hope that the planned date for the signing of the final document on inter alia transitional justice will not change. the compromise between the colombian government and the farc on compensation for victims of the armed conflict is also worthy of recognition.
in writing. a quarter of a million dead, 27,000 kidnapped, thousands of children forced to bear arms and over 7 million injured are the toll of the civil war that has raged for over half a century in colombia. finally, after 30 years of fruitless peace talks, there is a significant chance of finding a historic agreement between the government and the farc guerrillas. in its resolution, the european parliament called for the talks to be concluded as soon as possible. it also drew attention to the need for financial, logistical and political support from the european union in implementing the peace agreement in colombia. it also called on eu member states to establish a trust fund to support the post-conflict phase of the peace process, taking into account the priorities identified by the victims of crime, namely truth, justice and reparation and the guarantee that conflict will never happen again. this resolution is a very important element of the union's commitment to promoting peaceful solutions to armed conflicts, which is why i fully supported its text.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. this year marks 25 years since the dissolution of the soviet union. despite such a long time, moscow's influence is still a destabilizing factor in the region. in relation to countries like georgia, ukraine, moldova, they have intensified in recent years, making reforms more difficult. in relation to my country's close neighbor ukraine this is already open aggression with the annexation of part of the territory. we support reform efforts in all three countries. we want to see visa facilitation implemented as soon as possible. poland has good experience with migration from the east, especially from these countries. we have hundreds of thousands of ukrainians in poland, this is mainly a labour migration and let's not be afraid of it is a positive factor. we strongly support a joint resolution on this matter. we hope that it will be adopted by the european parliament in the vote tomorrow.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! i hope there's something we have in common. that is what we need to have, common european values and that these values are also an opportunity for our neighbours, and ukraine is our neighbour. i think it's a country no less connected to european history, culture, civilization, tradition than some of the current members of the european union, quite distant, or whatever, from europe. it's good that they're in it, but i wish europe was wider. we also need to support georgia, although i have in front of me copies of the emails that come to me and whose authors express concern about the fate of political prisoners in that country. i hope that the authorities in tbilisi will continue to follow the european path together with the opposition, not separately. i believe that deeply. i hope that the european parliament will support them in this endeavour.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. there is no doubt that ukraine, georgia and moldova are european countries, that they were and are an important part of the community of values which is the foundation of the european union. the deepening of the ties between these countries and the union is not just a matter of pragmatism, but is largely our historical duty. the association and enhanced cooperation agreements are an important step towards closer integration and it is gratifying to see that they are being successfully implemented. of course, we cannot exclude mistakes, delays, but this process is too important in the current difficult international situation in eastern europe for small shortcomings to change the course of these countries' defenses. the actions taken by the russian federation to torpedo the course of economic modernization in ukraine, georgia and moldova, especially the suspension of the free trade zone between these countries aimed at kiev, is further proof that moscow does not want cooperation, but constant confrontation. such actions should only mobilize us to increase our efforts and support for our eastern partners.
madam president! why should the european union pursue an eastern policy? what is the point of eastern politics? the european union has good neighbours in the east, it has ukraine and moldova, societies that want to live in law, freedom and justice, that want to build close economic and political ties with a united europe, that want to pay the heavy price of freedom that the ukrainian society paid for the maidan. finally, contrary to what my colleagues say, who seem to be speaking in the interests of the russian federation, the policy of europe, the policy of the european union, is bringing peace and stability to this area. peace and stability are threatened by putin's imperialism, not by the persistent policies of the european union. i'm not only in favor of the association agreements, but also in favor of their implementation, as intensive as possible.
madam president! as a representative of poland, with experience also in the polish parliament, involved in the integration process, i know how challenging it is to carry out the necessary, often very difficult, adjustment reforms and at the same time how difficult it is to maintain social support for these adjustment processes, especially in countries such as moldova, ukraine and georgia. we certainly expect these efforts to be in line with the commitments we have made, but we also need to do everything we can to support these countries and their societies to persevere in this effort. i therefore welcome the progress made towards visa liberalisation. moldova is the leader here. but they also welcome the criteria confirmed by the european commission for ukraine and georgia. since time is running out, i'd like to raise one point. what is worrying is the announced referendum in the netherlands on the approval of the association agreement with ukraine. i think we should make a big effort to help ukraine make this referendum a positive outcome.
madam president! january 2016 is a turning point or another stage in the beautiful and good path of moldova, georgia, ukraine to be in the family of democratic states of europe, but we must remember that everything that happens between the european union and these countries takes place on two levels. one is the wonderful one that allows these countries, and especially their peoples, to embark on a path of economic development, which also means increased prosperity, increased employment, reduced social exclusion. but on the other hand, we are dealing with an aggressive attitude, especially of the russian federation, but not only of the states that want to block, to inhibit the aspiration of these free peoples and democratically developing countries to freedom. we europeans should support them in this endeavour.
in writing. the european aspirations of georgia, moldova and ukraine are very important, but beyond the obvious eu path they share another very important element, a common denominator that cannot be forgotten in the context of these three countries. it is russia. russia, which still considers it its exclusive sphere of influence and plays a highly destabilising role, is waging an active war in eastern ukraine, annexing crimea, occupying georgian territories in abkhazia and south ossetia, and preventing a resolution of the frozen conflict in transnistria. when we talk about these countries, about the necessary reforms, about their aspirations and aspirations, we cannot forget russia. and in this context, we must always and unconditionally give georgia, moldova and ukraine all the support we can. as the situation in crimea, lugansk and donetsk has shown us, the russians will stop at nothing to keep these states in their sphere of influence. and often in these debates, the message is that if we're talking about these countries, we should focus on the internal situation, the fight against corruption and the changes that are being made. that's not true, man. speaking of them, we must always remember those forces that are very reluctant to see any changes, and that are waiting for any stumbling of the authorities in tbilisi, kiev and kishinev.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign trade. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! on behalf of the european people's party, i want to give my unequivocal support to the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. kosovo is a small country in the western balkans, but we also have to remember that it is the last of all the countries with which we have signed these agreements. the most important thing is what the commissioner has already presented. this agreement brings many good things for the european union, and above all for this small country and this small nation, which is suffering from poverty, perhaps the largest of all the nations of europe. so we have a chance here to support and assist kosovo. but on the other hand, it will also be good for the european union, for example in terms of migration, which is a very big problem and challenge today.
mr president, the concept of systematic mass murder is suitable in journalism, not in official political statements. the right word is genocide. the law does not know the concept of systematic mass murder, whereas genocide is a clearly defined concept in law; it has legal weight. so use this concept, madam high representative: if you use it once, use it more often, use it all the time in this context. who are the victims of the genocide? yes, religious minorities – muslims to be sure – but primarily christians. why not say it over and over and over again, madam high representative? many thousands of christians are being murdered every year. there have been several genocides in the past. the amazing thing is that each time they were perpetrated they were not called genocide out of fear of political expediency – the identification came later, and that is a shame. are we going to do this shameful evasion today? yes: there is genocide of christians today.
mr. chairman, please! i have spoken out many times on behalf of persecuted christians. according to open doors, there are over 100 million christians persecuted for their faith around the world. between 105,000 and 170,000 christians are killed every year. this data suggests that christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world, although other minorities are also being killed, and the situation has become even more brutal with the outbreak of atrocities by daesh and other extremist groups in the middle east as well as in africa. we can't talk about persecution here, we have to talk about genocide here. christians are under attack. their property is destroyed, their places of worship. they're maimed and forced to convert. they are also traded. their organs are used in commerce. that's how we get information from there. this information is also registered by various organisations, including church and non-governmental organisations. it's hard not to call this situation by its name, which is simply genocide. but other religious minorities are also suffering: muslims, muslim minorities, yazidis and other minorities. we need to do more than we've done so far. it's necessary, you know. it's the duty of the civilized world.
mr. chairman, please! this tragedy would not have happened, or it would have been much smaller, if we had remembered for years the simple principle that the security and freedom of christian communities in the middle east should be the central premise of our policy. maybe not the only one, but the one we always take into account when making decisions and when defining our enemies and allies. of course, as far as the syrian-iraqi border is concerned, we are seeing this drama at the moment, and we must therefore use humanitarian aid and all the measures we have talked about today. but we can draw conclusions. i strongly support the request, which i think was first made by lars adaktusson, to declare what is happening there as genocide. i also urge that we begin to condemn the anti-christian hatred and anti-christian contempt that silences the acts of anti-christian hatred.
mr. chairman, please! christians are the most persecuted religious minority in the world. as noted in a resolution of the european parliament last year, more than 150,000 christians are killed each year. for a long time, christians have been systematically and systematically, in a barbaric way, murdered by islamic state fighters, who also destroy their temples, cut off the heads of christians, burn them alive or drown them. isis' actions can be described as genocide. last year, many members of congress in the united states called for the killing of christians by isis to be classified as genocide. but the initiative stalled. after today's debate, you can see that there are meps in the european parliament, and from the largest political group, who would like us to be the first to call the crimes of the islamic state by name, that is, genocide. and i think that's what we should do.
mr. chairman, please! several colleagues have already mentioned the destruction by jihadists from the islamic state of another cultural monument - the 6th century monastery of st. elias in mosul. the so-called islamic state is responsible for the destruction of hundreds of religious sites and monuments. isis is destroying anything that they think is contrary to their interpretation of islam. ethnic and religious minorities are being gradually eliminated in the areas they control. christians are being tortured and murdered. their cultural heritage is being destroyed. they're getting all their property taken away. this situation has led to a dramatic decline in the number of christians who have lived in these areas for centuries. from about 2.5 million, the number has dropped to 800,000. within a few years, this minority may be completely exterminated. violence is also directed against others: yazidis, turkmen, and kurds. the international community must take decisive action. the right to freedom of religion, belief and culture must be respected, and the actions of isis must be considered as crimes against humanity and genocide.
mr. chairman, please! to the surprise of observers and lawyers, after the paris attacks, france invoked article 42 (7) instead of article 222 for terrorist attacks. expressing its willingness to negotiate bilaterally with the member states, the council unanimously supported france's approach. any further action - and this debate shows that there may be a problem - also requires a unanimous decision by the council.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs.– mr president, let me first start by saying that here we are clearly facing a kind of threat that probably was not clearly perceived or conceived of even six years ago with the lisbon treaty, because it is quite clear that we have an internal threat – let us remember that the terrorists had eu nationalities in this case – but with a clear external link, because there were references, links, training, resources, support that were linked with what is happening in syria and daesh. clearly the line between the external and the internal even only six years ago was much better defined than it is today. so this is the nature of the threats – and let me underline that this is also a reply to those of you, a couple if not more, who referred to the need to defend our borders. let us remember that the attacks in paris were unfortunately perpetrated by people who hold eu passports. so it is not just a matter of defending the territory from the outside, it is also a much more complex issue of how we secure our citizens, how we guarantee the safety of our citizens from a threat that is at the same time internal and external, and we have to put together different kinds of measures there. i think and hope that the global strategy we are working on will also help us to redefine a common direction on how to guarantee the security of our citizens in these times – times that are themselves new and different. having said that, let me reply to some specific points that were raised. first of all, the use of article 42(7) rather than article 222. obviously it is for single member states to take the political decision as to which article they want to invoke in terms of asking for assistance from other member states. but let me clearly compare the two articles in question. article 42(7) refers to ‘armed aggression’ or ‘armed attack’ – we have different linguistic versions in different languages – on the territory of a member state, while article 222 refers to a terrorist attack or a natural or man-made disaster. in terms of obligation, in both cases member states have an obligation to act. in terms of contributions, in the case of article 42(7) assistance comes from individual member states while, as some of you have underlined, article 222 also calls for mobilising eu instruments. in terms of implementation – and here comes what is i think the most interesting point for our debate in the future – article 42(7) leaves the implementation process open. here i observe that the guidelines you were somehow indicating would have been useful in 2012 were not produced. i believe that today we are seeing the implementation of this article, putting together all our resources, all our services and intelligence. this is something that we managed somehow between the decision that we shared with the french government to use article 42(7) and the moment when this decision was shared with the member states in the defence council, a period of more of less 24 hours – it was certainly a quick reaction from the european union services that we were able to gather at very short notice, but i believe the work that both our legal services and our structures that handle this level of assistance worked extremely well, as did the coordination between member states. but coming back to implementation, article 222 on the contrary foresees that the european union has a coordinating role because of the potential involvement of european union instruments. but let me say something that i underlined in my introductory remarks: even though the wording of article 42(7) does not call for any kind of specific role for the european union in terms of implementation, we decided jointly with france and all the member states during the council meeting of 17 december, if i remember correctly, to have all the relevant eu structures and institutions, including myself, directly involved at all stages of implementation. that was a political choice and i believe this political choice demonstrated the willingness of all of us to use this article as a way of strengthening the role of the european union in this field. there is one element that might seem technical but is, i believe, important. elmar brok mentioned this, namely the location of the requested action is different when it comes to article 42(7) compared with article 222, because in the case of article 222 assistance is in principle provided inside the territory of the member state to reinforce its capacities during the crisis, while in the case of article 42(7) france was clearly requesting assistance in external theatres. so i believe this was an element that was considered during those hours. indeed, there were other articles that could have been used apart from these two, because you all know very well that we have article 44 that has never been used and that would have implied eu-csdp action – a military mission, with some member states, the ‘willing’ member states the article says if i remember correctly, taking the responsibility in conjunction with the council to lead, on behalf of the european union, a csdp mission or operation. my political assessment has always been and still is, and i believe the council strongly supports this vision, that it is not and it would not be appropriate for the european union as such to have a military operation or mission against daesh. this is a political choice. this is not a technical use of the treaties, and i believe that also in this house most of you would agree with me in saying that at the moment – and the situation might change or might have changed years from now – i would not see a csdp role for the european union for a military intervention against daesh in syria and iraq. not while we have other forms of engagement of the european union, such as the implementation phase of article 42(7) in all stages, which is somehow an upgrade of the role of the european union institutions and structures compared with the wording of the article, which is a political sign. and on the other side, as you know very well, we have the diplomatic and humanitarian work and the work of the european union within the anti-daesh coalition when it comes to our global commitment against daesh and against terrorism. when it comes to the nato issue, let me say that for those member states who are also members of nato, eu mutual assistance is a complementary element to nato’s collective defence. this is clearly stated in article 42(7) which says that commitment and cooperation in this area shall be consistent with commitments under the north atlantic treaty organisation for those states which are members of it. so no overlapping, no competition, no distance or divergence, simply a complementary possibility. and let me also add in more general terms that in this first year and a couple of months that we have been together in office, in parallel, i as high representative of the european union and jens stoltenberg as secretary general of nato, we have strengthened the cooperation between nato and the european union in a very significant way. i would expect this to take even more concrete form as we develop our strategy from now until june, and as nato prepares for the nato summit at the beginning of july. the two processes run in parallel. obviously we have completely different paths, but these are communicating paths, and we exchange views, especially on those fields where our cooperation can be complementary for the benefit of all – for instance, in those fields where the european union has a clear and specific added value when it comes to cyber threats or cyber security. so there are fields of cooperation that are growing stronger and stronger. the french decision that the council has shared to call for article 42(7) was and is a clear sign, first that the european union can and should be seen as an effective security provider, first and foremost by its member states. second, it is a sign that solidarity is indeed part of our union. third, that all articles of the treaties can be used. and let me say on this that we do not need ideological debates or theoretical debates: first of all, we cannot afford theoretical debates at this time when the security of our continent is at stake; but we do not need ideological debates either, we need to put in place and use the instruments we already have, and we need to create the political conditions for doing this together, united, highlighting the added value of the european union also in the security and defence dimension where it can be an increasingly precious and vital tool to serve national interests, in some cases in a more effective way than a purely national approach. the european union has an added value in this respect. let me mention the 17 missions and operations we already have around the world that are an instrument and a tool for all the member states together to act in different theatres where, together, we work better than we would do alone or through other means. because there are specific dimensions where the eu instruments work better than a nato instrument or a un peacekeeping mission or other kinds of missions. this is already something that the european council unanimously recognises. both the european council conclusions, of december 2015 and june 2015, indicate clearly a sense of direction towards investing more in the dimension of csdp, and i am confident that also with the help of this house the necessary work, the political work we need to prepare, is going to be done to achieve the implementation of the treaty provisions fully and successfully and, let me say, for the safety, the security and the benefit of all european citizens.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the unanimous and full support expressed by all eu member states for france in the face of the tragedy that forced it to invoke the mutual defence clause is encouraging. the invocation of article 42 (7) teu is primarily a political act and the european council and the european parliament are the venues for political debate. any first use of a clause requires an awareness that it will be used in different situations in the future. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the present situation sets a precedent, but also that it sets out the procedures for applying it in individual cases. since no analysis or guidelines were available at the time of the activation of article 42 (7) teu by france, ad hoc action was necessary. however, there is a clear need to define practical steps, guidelines and procedures to ensure a common and effective response when a member state invokes a mutual defence clause. the role of the eu institutions in this procedure should be strengthened and should primarily involve the coordination of the assistance provided. to this end, the eu needs a permanent civilian-military headquarters at the operational and strategic levels, taking into account the existing capabilities of the member states. this structure would be responsible for strategic and operational planning, including mutual defence, in accordance with articles 42 (7) and 42 (2) teu and their future application in close cooperation with the relevant nato structures.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu priorities for the unhcr meeting in 2016.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs. – mr president, as you know, i have spent the most part of this year in office travelling the world, and in doing so i have had the chance to look at europe and our european union through the eyes of our friends and partners. when they look at us, they immediately think of two things: our economic strengths – even after the crisis, hoping the crisis is actually passed – and our work for human rights. let me take this debate not just as an opportunity to list the priorities we have at the un human rights council in 2016. let me also say a few words on how we wish to promote human rights all around the world, and what human rights are to us. i believe the main tools we have to support human rights worldwide are multilateralism and engagement with all the relevant actors and stakeholders. this is why the human rights council is so central. it is the place where resolute action can be agreed against grave humanitarian rights violations, and it is also the un central venue for forging new partnerships to advance human rights around the world. it is where we seek to promote justice and equality, as well as collaborative and inclusive approaches in the face of discrimination, repression and violence. as such, at hrc31 we will be prioritising two of the worst cases of human rights violations and abuses: the dprk, which you will be discussing tomorrow in this hemicycle, and syria, which we discussed yesterday. the dprk continues to be one of – if not the – most oppressive states in the world. the freedoms of expression, religion and movement are almost non—existent. hundreds of thousands of people remain detained in political prison camps and other detention facilities. many of these people have not been convicted of any internationally recognised crime. at hrc31, we will be co-presenting with japan a strong resolution addressing this grave human rights situation. the resolution will call for accountability and extend the mandate of the special rapporteur. it will also press for effective follow-up by the dprk to the universal periodic review process and for a resumption of reporting to treaty monitoring bodies. closer to us, syria is by far the world’s largest humanitarian disaster, with no parallel in recent history. our first priority in the current political talks is to allow humanitarian access to the largest part of the country. such focus will be reflected in the resolution on syria. the recent axis of aid in madaya was a positive step, but it is just a first step that needs to be followed by many others, and relevant ones. in the long run, peace in syria will require justice and accountability for all. putting together the pieces of syrian society will not be easy. reconciliation will need, first of all, recognition of the immense suffering of the syrian people. to this end, we will support further extension of the commission of inquiry’s mandate, which we also discussed in a previous debate this evening, as this remains the sole evidence—gathering tool in support of potential future justice mechanisms. the human rights council is also a place where positive developments can be recognised, so our other country-specific priority will be on myanmar/burma, whose historic elections in november are a much welcome step forward. we still have ongoing concerns, in particular with regard to ethnic and religious minorities. we will then present a resolution which recommends to the new government that takes office in april to take swift and bold action to address these issues, and which ensures continuing un scrutiny of the developments in the country. we will also be presenting two thematic resolutions: one on freedom of religion or belief to underline eu support to the fight against the religious intolerance in all forms and expressions – and again, we come back to an issue we discussed a few hours ago – and one jointly with a latin america and caribbean group on the rights of the child. on freedom of religion, we will also be organising a side—event where the special rapporteur will present the key findings in his report with the participation of civil society. this is in line with our belief that we could not discuss basic human rights without civil society representatives. throughout the whole year, the european union will keep working with partners to promote and protect the space of civil society and – let me stress this – the role of human rights defenders in un proceedings and in all countries. before closing, let me mention two further issues of particular importance for our work on human rights: the credibility of the un human rights forum, and our own credibility. the first lies primarily in the independence, integrity and effectiveness of the office of the high commissioner for human rights. the eu has been, and will remain, an important partner in staving off attempts to place its activity under the scrutiny or guidance of un member states. this is essential to preserve its credibility. the european union has also extended concrete cooperation to help the office of high commissioner perform its vital task, that is, to service all the hrc-endorsed mechanisms and provide meaningful assistance for the implementation of international human rights agreements. this includes political backing and financial support under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. let us come to ourselves. worldwide, we are perceived as a champion of human rights, and rightly so. sometimes this is a good perception, while some other partners have some doubts about our role, but this does not stop us. on the contrary, this motivates us even more. let me tell you that, over the past year, this perception has been challenged. the current events are putting us to the test. it is not just the refugee crisis, it is also the long-term effects of the economic crisis and the growing sense of instability for our citizens. they need to find a way out of the past crisis with a shift in policies that is significant and visible. these are clearly not easy times, but if we lose sight of fundamental rights for all inside europe, all can be lost before we even realise it. you, here in this hemicycle, represent half a billion european citizens. there are very few of you right now, but still. our entire political class faces a tough challenge: to make our politics reflect what is best in us – what is best in europe – and we have a choice. we can focus on our fears, foster them and let them tear this union apart, or we can bet on the values that made us strong, on our diversity, on our solidarity, and restart the engines of this european union. it is clearly no easy task, but it is one we definitely cannot fail.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. your highness! i would like to begin by thanking all those involved in the negotiation of this year's resolution on the priorities of the european union for the united nations human rights council. firstly, it is good news that we are adopting our resolution on time this year, before the final priorities of the european union are adopted, and at the same time i thank the high representative here for her openness and willingness to debate with us, which i hope will provide a wider understanding of the priorities identified by parliament in the position with which the delegation will be going to the session starting at the end of february. i would also like to stress what the high representative has said, that such an important element of this european engagement is precisely multilateralism and commitment to human rights. secondly, this year's position contains a very broad catalogue of issues relevant to respect for human rights. these include, among others, the improvement of the functioning of the council itself, including the functioning of the international criminal court, civil and political rights, the issue of the permanent point of abolition and limitation, or moratorium on the death penalty, religious freedom, the situation of human rights defenders, social and economic rights, and business and human rights relations, which are becoming increasingly important in the world. of course, the issue of the migration crisis, which is also linked to a large extent to the humanitarian crisis, the fight against terrorism and also to human rights in various aspects related to the climate or in the context of sporting events. third, we emphasize that religious freedom is a fundamental human right, as guaranteed by the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. last sentence mr president we are dealing with what is probably the biggest migration crisis in decades. we stress that it is not only european but above all international, global in nature and that multilateral action is needed.
mr. chairman, please! your highness! the unhrc has a unique mandate from the international community, including the union, to promote and protect human rights worldwide. it is important that the members of this body are chosen from among countries that respect these rights. unfortunately, the membership criteria in this area remain unregulated, which threatens the effectiveness and impartiality of this council. the un human rights council's country-specific periodic general reviews are a necessary mechanism, but there is a need to take into account the different interest groups, in particular civil society organisations. the recommendations contained in the review are a signal to other countries as well and should translate into cooperation and effective solutions at national and regional level. human rights should also be respected in the business world. both the union and the un should strive to set standards for businesses and member states in terms of decent work and support for the development of local communities. i hope that the union will participate actively in the sessions of the human rights council, including by intervening in human rights issues and by enforcing accountability for human rights violations.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i would point out that the un charter has not been revised to date and that, regardless of the coordinated position of the eu member states, each of them has the opportunity to express its views on serious human rights violations in the world. the report does not include such cases in crimea after the annexation of that territory of ukraine by the russian federation. nadia savchenko is still in custody. this issue has not been brought up in the human rights council. recently, a series of suspicious deaths of high-ranking representatives of the russian special services, as well as long-standing activists of the democratic opposition (borys nemtsov, vladimir pribilovsky) have occurred. the report on the circumstances of litvinenko's death will also be published. all these events call for a focus on the dramatic human rights situation in russia despite the commitment to dialogue in other areas. similar comments apply to china. nor are cases of persistent violations of fundamental rights of individuals and entire communities in iran, including public executions, included. unfortunately, none of the eu institutions has addressed these shortcomings in their position. the ep resolution also contains no such elements. i am glad that the issue of crimea has been discussed in the us congress, the council of europe and the un in new york. one of the polish ngos, pauci, also produced a shocking report on this issue.
the question asked by raising the blue card. both what you said and what commissioner avramopoulos said are very true. we should not conflate refugees with immigration, immigration with support for terrorism, or even support for terrorism with terrorism. but can you not see, madam president, that the presence of millions of muslims in europe has provided the basis for terrorism, which is unfortunately a european phenomenon, not an exotic, not imported one?
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. as i recall, the socialists were one of the groups that slowed down the work on the pnr directive. a few weeks ago the commission presented a new draft directive on counter-terrorism. that's a good directive. i would like to ask you, as a representative of the socialist group, whether the socialists will support the anti-terrorism directive proposed by the commission or whether, as in the case of the pnr directive, we will be faced with blocking work on it?
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you how you would assess the fact that the events in cologne were not reported in the media for four or five days, that there was no public debate on the matter, that not only, as my colleague dzhambazki said, the police were given orders to withhold information, but that german public opinion in general, and therefore public opinion throughout europe, was not informed of these facts? how does that relate to the problem we're discussing right now? the problem of terrorism?
the question asked by raising the blue card. don't you think that this language of populism and extremism is simply the language of exclusion? this is hate speech against millions of europeans, their democratically expressed views, their democratically elected representatives. are you really, by continuing to use this language, able to build any kind of social dialogue about the biggest crisis europe is facing today and the problems we have to solve together?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say that i agree with my colleagues who have said that terrorism is also an intra-european problem. i remind you that isis is now supported by one in ten britons and one in six frenchmen. studies also show that support for isis is lower in arab countries than in european countries. the countries that send the highest number of isis fighters per capita, alongside countries like saudi arabia, uzbekistan, albania, are belgium, which is also home to the european parliament, the european institutions, sweden, france and this should be the subject of our reflection. first of all, the fact that the main targets of terrorist recruitment are young people who lack a sense of identity, roots and social patterns, children of immigrants, often in the second or third generation, people torn between their ancestral homeland and the country in which they live, and who do not feel at home in any of them, as well as children from broken homes, patchwork families seeking a sense of stability, attitudes unencumbered by relativism and therefore attracted by radical ideologies or religious fundamentalism. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'd like to get to know the problem first, and i have a suggestion for you and our colleagues. we spend many hours in the european parliament, and just a few kilometres away, in the neighbourhood near the european parliament, people are gathering to plan attacks. maybe we could take an ethnographic tour together and go there and see the reality of europe and then we could go back to reality, because going back to reality is the basis for making the right diagnosis and finding solutions to the problem you're talking about.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. we will be voting today on the final report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. i have been involved in the work of the committee on petitions since 2004, so i have followed its work for over a decade and have seen how the results of its work directly or indirectly affect eu legislation. at the legal level, citizens' complaints to the committee on petitions are a test of the implementation of community law in the member states. the number of petitions is still high, which shows that we are still facing a lack of proper enforcement or poor implementation of the law. the number of petitions, on the other hand, also shows that european union citizens are becoming more aware and aware that they can effectively assert their rights in the european parliament. in 2013, after a year-on-year increase in the number of petitions, we recorded a peak in the number of complaints received. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: the statistics show that 2714 petitions were received by the european parliament during the period under review, which is 6% less than in 2013. in addition, 1877 petitions were closed in 2014, an increase of almost 10% compared to 2013. however, the time taken to process petitions is still not satisfactory. we must strive to ensure that each petition has the opportunity to be examined as quickly as possible, while at the same time addressing the issue in an effective and efficient manner. i hope that with the use of advanced information technology, our contacts with citizens will be more efficient and problems will be solved more quickly. the new web portal launched in november 2014 has already streamlined the previous web-based system. citizens can submit petitions electronically through the new portal, have all the necessary information on parliament's powers, register, file a petition, download supporting documents, obtain information on the status of their petition, and receive automatically generated email notifications on changes to the status of a petition. complainants are increasingly using the internet. 80% of the petitions received in 2014 were sent by email. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to this report. thanks to your involvement, we have been able to produce a fuller report, better reflecting the specific activities of the committee on petitions, and i would now like to hear your views.
madam president, i would like to stress the significance of the annual report on the activities of our committee. it does not only give the full view of what has been done in 2014, but it also represents a possible change for the future in the way we handle the petitions in our committee. the proper treatment of eu citizens who exercise their right to petition is very important: it influences trust in the petitions committee, and it also gives a certain credibility to eu institutions. i support the idea that petitions are the major instrument for our citizens to be more effectively involved in the democratic process of the eu and at eu level. in this regard, i believe that the epp plenary amendments are crucial to this report, because they clearly indicate the obligation to comply with the administrative procedure. this is very important, because we tend to fail to realise that the administrative procedure is very important in our work. these rules are guiding principles in the whole lifecycle of the petition, and this makes the whole mechanism more focused on real results. whatever we do, we have to make sure that we don’t give false hopes to the petitioners. we have to handle the petitions in a more transparent way, we have to make sure that citizens are properly addressed and that their issues are properly addressed in our committee, and we have to reduce the likelihood of politicisation of our agenda. there is still a lot to be done in in our committee, but i am certain that we can win this battle to find a proper definition of the admissibility of petitions. we have to find a good way to explain to petitioners why their petition is inadmissible, and also why their petition needs to be closed at times.
madam president! the committee on petitions exercises the right of citizens of the european union to have recourse to the european parliament in their difficult, everyday matters, as guaranteed by the treaties, provided that they fall within the scope of the european union's activities. the work of the committee on petitions can help to remove obstacles to the implementation of eu law. these tasks and objectives mean that the process of improving the functioning of the committee on petitions is ongoing. the members of the epp group shall be actively involved in this process. the rapporteur has not taken account of one of the amendments proposed by our group, which is to encourage member states to legislate for the establishment of committees on petitions in national parliaments. this issue was discussed in 2015 with the members of the committee on petitions. not all member states' parliaments have such committees in their structures and such a solution would significantly affect the effectiveness of the committee on petitions' cooperation with national parliaments. this would allow the national parliaments to be consulted on matters not falling within the union's remit. another amendment that was not included concerns childcare. after all, not only married parents but also couples living apart from each other have custody of their children. failure to do so can have serious consequences in child custody disputes. an important amendment concerns the length of the petition procedure. as a member of the working group on petitions for children, i object to the artificial maintenance of petitions that we lack competence to deal with. such a state of affairs only increases the delusional hopes of a positive outcome. so i invite you to receive it. the omission of these important amendments makes the report of the committee on petitions' work for 2014 less comprehensive.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to express my thanks to ms geringer de oedenberg for her very interesting report. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank those members who have intervened in this morning’s debate for their comments, which i have very carefully noted. the right to petition is a cornerstone of eu citizenship and a fundamental right under the treaty. demonstrating to europe’s citizens that we take their concerns seriously into consideration will serve to strengthen their trust in the european institutions. the commission repeats its commitment to work in close cooperation with the parliament and committee on petitions to ensure the effective and efficient handling of petitions.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. as lead rapporteur, i am very pleased to have had the opportunity to produce a report with a group of highly engaged and creative people. it was a fruitful work, which not only shows the current state of the work of the committee, but above all gives guidelines for how to guide its activities in the future. the report aims to further improve the work on petitions. if some of us are critical of some of the conclusions of the report, that is good news. it's a signal of what areas we still have to work on. there is undoubtedly still a lot to do, but each step brings us closer to achieving better results and thus to acting more effectively for our citizens. i would like to thank commissioner avramopoulos for the detailed explanations he has given in connection with my report. the report was a collaborative effort. i would like to thank all the counter-rapporteurs whose suggestions, comments and hints have been very valuable to me, namely the following members: marina albiol, heinz becker, beatriz becerra, eleonora evi, professor notis marias, julia reda. i would also like to thank all the coordinators and advisers, the staff of the committee secretariat involved in the report, including soledad cabezón, vivienne byrne, nicolaidzie khier-koskina, karolina lecocq perez and my personal assistant karolina kocberskaya. i think that despite many initial differences, we were able to come together to produce a solid report with guidelines for the future work of the committee on petitions.
in writing. ‒ stabilisation and association agreements are part of the stabilisation and association process with the eu, which has the western balkan countries at its centre. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was signed on 27 october. it is one of the key documents in the stabilisation and association process. it sets out rights and responsibilities and provides a strong incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. the stabilisation and association agreement will create opportunities for investment, growth and business development, while strengthening good governance through the application of european standards and harmonisation with eu law, including in the framework of the establishment of a free trade area. i welcomed the recent signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. the agreement is the first step towards european integration for the country. i hope that this agreement with the eu will help stabilise the situation in kosovo and help bring peace between the different ethnic groups and ensure prosperity in the country. with that in mind, i voted to accept the document.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade for the committee on foreign affairs on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo, i am very pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to this agreement, which aims to significantly deepen economic and trade relations between the partners. the stabilisation and association agreement is an opportunity for economic development in kosovo, the poorest country in europe. the agreement contained both incentives and commitments to carry out the necessary reforms and create the conditions for new investment and jobs. i hope that the authorities in pristina will use this opportunity to improve the situation of the people of kosovo, where about 40% of the population lives in extreme poverty and unemployment is as high as 30%. it is the only way to try to stop the mass exodus of people from the country that we have seen over the last dozen months.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine are the three eastern partnership (eap) countries that have signed and ratified association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with the eu. all three countries are now implementing their reform plans with varying success and depending on the circumstances. unfortunately, they also face the occupation of parts of their territories in conflicts in which russia plays a key role. in georgia, there are concerns about the independence of the judiciary, repression of political opposition and media freedom (initiated by the government's attempt to take over a television station). moldova is grappling with a deep political crisis that has almost brought reforms to a standstill and could threaten the country's european course. ukraine is engaged in an armed conflict in the east with separatists actively supported by russia. i have always sought to support the european aspirations of the eastern partnership countries and i welcome the progress made by these countries since the signing of the aa and dcfta. i also fully support the territorial integrity of all three states. however, there are still some problems with regard to the above areas which have not allowed me to vote for the adoption of the document. i hope that in the future (near future) all three countries will be free from the aforementioned ailments for the benefit of their people.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the resolution on the association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the efforts made in recent years by the associate countries to adapt their legislation and procedures are of great importance for their future, as they are deepening the process of integration with the eu in economic, legal, social and political terms. however, the geopolitical situation makes maintaining a pro-european stance increasingly challenging; in moldova in particular, the political and economic crisis has deepened and the state has been brought to the brink of bankruptcy. in this context, visa liberalisation between the eu and the eastern partnership countries is one of those concrete benefits that help convince citizens of the good balance of pro-european choice. visa-free travel facilitates contacts and helps to gain experience and develop the infrastructure, communication and business essential for the proper implementation of the association agreements.
in writing. ‒ association agreements and deeper trade agreements are important instruments to support the comprehensive development of european countries outside the european union. political and economic agreements are also a strong impetus for the necessary reforms so that in the long term these countries too can become full members of the community. in a resolution on the evaluation of the implementation of the trade and association agreements with ukraine, georgia and moldova, the european parliament called on the european commission to continue to support the countries in the implementation of the agreements, both technically and financially. he also called for the results of structural and social reforms in the abovementioned countries to be presented. however, it is also important to pay attention to the external aspect of these agreements, and in particular to russia's actions towards the former eastern bloc countries that have entered into closer cooperation with the european union. ukraine, for example, has had a trade agreement with the community since the beginning of the year. russia, convinced that the deal would hurt its interests, decided to impose tariffs and embargoes on ukrainian products, which would have a very negative impact on the weakened ukrainian economy. the other two countries, georgia and moldova, may also be in a similar situation. it is therefore important that the eu focuses its action on a holistic approach to trade and association agreements, without ignoring the geopolitical implications.
our common defence policy should be expressed above all in a common, united position within the atlantic alliance, to which three quarters of our countries belong. of course, it should also be reflected in the mobilization of the atlantic alliance to take greater care of our security. what is stopping us, as three-quarters of nato, from being more concerned about the security of estonia or latvia? if we really want to ensure our common security, it is time to guarantee it by mobilizing the alliance to which we belong, not by declaring on paper or falling into a kind of defensive schizophrenia, where we behave as if we were outside the european union - and before we joined it, or before it was created - and belonged to an alliance that effectively guaranteed our freedom and security.
in writing. ‒ at the meeting of defence ministers in the foreign affairs council on 17 november 2015, france invoked the mutual defence clause for the first time in history to ask other countries for support against the islamic state in syria and iraq and in other missions following the november terrorist attacks in paris. the french president pointed out that france was relying on article 42 (7) and not on the so-called solidarity clause, namely article 222 of the treaty on european union. while the latter opens the way for greater eu involvement, the former operates in an intergovernmental formula, allowing paris to play a greater role. france could also have invoked article 42 (7) to obtain derogations from eu treaty requirements both in specific cases and in general with regard to the budgetary savings imposed by the eu. in view of the lack of coherence between action and law, in the light of the above, and the discussion of two points related to article 42 (7) at the sede meeting on 1 december 2015, it appeared that there was no reason to use this article to promote a greater role for the eu in the field of security and defence. in view of the above, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ poland stands in solidarity with france and declared at the meeting of the defence ministers all assistance to france following the terrorist attacks in paris in accordance with article 42 (7) teu. however, this article only talks about bilateral cooperation and calls for the coordination of security policies by the member states within nato, which remains the foundation of their common defence. i therefore believe that the use of article 42 (7) to strengthen the eu's role in security and defence is contrary to the spirit and the letter of that article. however, in the interest of showing solidarity with france following the terrorist attacks, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ following the november attacks in paris, france decided to invoke the mutual defence clause under article 42 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to obtain assistance from other eu member states in the fight against the perpetrators of this tragedy. the unanimous support given by the eu member states to paris is crucial to the effectiveness of these efforts, particularly in the area of the exchange of intelligence on the movement of arms, explosives and the movements of terrorism suspects. this exceptional situation can certainly serve as a pretext for creating a more effective platform for cooperation also in the field of border management and police and other law enforcement activities. france's request for assistance in the fight against the so-called islamic state should provide an impetus for closer cooperation on european security and defence and for the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to develop practical solutions to ensure an effective collective response to similar situations in the future.
in the last two years alone, slovaks, slovenes, croats have been speaking out in national referendums in defense of the natural order of the family, against the political vindication of the homosexual movement being forced upon them. of course, similar provisions are found in the constitutions of hungary and poland or in the ordinary laws of lithuania. and yet today, once again, the european parliament voted to support these reclassifications. instead of representing the position of our countries in the united nations, or even respecting the positions taken by some of our societies in national referendums, the european parliament wants the european union to change us. all of this shows that the biggest threat to democracy in europe today is the policies of the current eu authorities.
in writing. ‒ while the draft resolution made many valid recommendations on eu priorities at unhcr sessions, i voted against the resolution as a whole because i disagree with its basic assumptions on, among other things, eu policy towards the use of the death penalty globally, affirmation of lgbti rights, attempts to extend the use of full reproductive health services and increased pressure on eu member states on migration. it is also unacceptable that the text of the resolution does not expressly mention human rights violations in russia, iran and china.
in writing. ‒ this year's european parliament resolution on the european union's priorities for the un human rights council addresses many important human rights issues in the world, such as the abolition of the death penalty, religious freedom, civil and political rights, the fight against terrorism, and the migration and refugee crisis. although the compromise text of the resolution was negotiated in the final vote, i could not support it because of the wording of a paragraph dealing with a very complex issue, the middle east peace process.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is firmly of the view that respect for civil and political rights is a hallmark of a democratic, tolerant and pluralistic society. as chair of the ep delegation for relations with belarus, i am committed to speaking out about violations of human rights and democratic values in belarus in the widest possible forum. i am therefore glad that this resolution also refers to the situation in belarus. the european community was relieved to hear of the release of political prisoners in belarus in august 2015. we look forward to their full rehabilitation and restoration of their civil rights. we, along with international observers, watched the presidential elections in october 2015. unfortunately, there are a number of irregularities. free, universal and equal elections should be a fundamental right of all citizens. therefore, we expect the upcoming parliamentary elections to be held in accordance with international standards, which will result in the presence of opposition parties in the belarusian parliament. i would also point out that belarus is the only country in europe that applies the death penalty. parliament consistently expresses its opposition to the use of the death penalty, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment, and stresses that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity. i therefore call on the belarusian authorities to agree to a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, which will be the first step towards its total abolition.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions is an important tool for citizens to participate more fully in the democratic process at eu level, and it promotes debate and informs and supports citizens about their rights. the aim of the committee on petitions is to provide citizens with direct contact with the institutions and to ensure that they find someone in the institutions who will listen to their specific problems. after hearing the report, i have decided to vote in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of good provisions against forced adoption of children (including jugendamt). polish citizens living abroad also face this problem. unfortunately, the report also mentions that all countries should be members of the charter of fundamental rights, of which poland is not a member and does not intend to be. i was not able to vote for the report, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition the european parliament is a fundamental right of every citizen of the european union, and importantly, it is also a right of businesses, organisations and associations established in the european union. the work of the european parliament's committee on petitions is of great importance as it allows civil society to bring to the attention of parliament any cases of violation of their rights by a member state, local authorities or european union institutions. the number of petitions also shows that eu law is still not being properly implemented or respected in many places, which is important information for the european commission, which is the guardian of the eu treaties.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on eu citizens, in particular italian, estonian and british citizens, detained in india (2016/2522 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on ethiopia (2016/2520 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the minister! i think i'm the chairman who's always trying to give you a voice, and you shouldn't complain about me. you've spoken out a few times, and if i didn't see your name on the list, i apologize to you, and of course it won't happen again. i was not here with any ill will, and i think you have never judged me as having any ill will, and you never will. sorry again. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven resolutions on north korea (2016/2521 (rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. president, i would like to thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen! fellow workers! the report is a balanced assessment of the ecb's activities. but for the first time, this report has been criticized. first, any medium- and long-term instruments that should contribute to the economic recovery in europe and that would meet the need for a sustained recovery of the real economy in all not in some of the 28 countries of the european union should be highlighted. it should also be noted that, although the ecb is pursuing its efforts to maintain favourable financing conditions, private and public investment in the euro area remains well below its pre-crisis level. it is therefore desirable to increase access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. in considering the annual report on the ecb, i would like to draw attention to what i consider to be a very important point. this is firstly respect for the ecb's decision-making independence, but also an appropriate separation of the ecb's supervisory role and its monetary policy decision-making function. the combination of these two functions should not give rise to a conflict of interest for the ecb.
mr president, in my opinion the monetary policy of the ecb has been properly focused on restoring price stability and on contributing to gradual economic recovery in the euro area. unconventional measures, such as the asset purchase programme and the negative deposit rates, have been generally successful, if somewhat overdue. had they been introduced earlier – in my opinion at least – the results would have been probably better. but this is not a critique, mr draghi, as i am fully aware of the political constraints within which you have to act and the especially strong opposition to those measures from some members of the governing council. but let me tell you that the opposition has been vindicated by the facts. these have demonstrated that you were right and your opponents were wrong. mr president, we are discussing the european parliament report today, and i think this is a balanced and objective document. it is a much-improved document compared to the first draft that has been discussed at the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), which in my opinion was one-sided, biased and full of unjustified accusations against the ecb – especially for matters for which the ecb is not responsible. mr draghi, i have one question. at one of our earlier meetings during the monetary dialogue meetings at the econ committee, you said that you would consider ‘helicopter money’: that is, the direct emission of cash money to market participants. i would like to ask you: what is your current thinking on this, on the legal grounds, and on the consequences – both bad and good – of this measure in the event that we introduce it? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the ecb has done whatever was possible within its competences as described in the treaty. as i said, perhaps the quantitative easing could have been undertaken a little bit earlier, but i also said that there were political constraints. in the final analysis, mr draghi took the decisions that saved the euro area back in 2012 by declaring that he would do whatever it took to save the euro. i think he deserves credit for what he has done.
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to recall president mario draghi's declaration in 2012 that the ecb would do everything possible to preserve and defend the euro. and indeed, since then, the ecb has been pursuing a policy of very low interest rates recently even negative and from march 2015, as we heard, until march 2017, also buying government bonds on the secondary market at 60 billion euros per month, so at least for the amount of about 1.5 trillion euros. while this has kept the price of debt for the most indebted euro area countries at a relatively low level, the growth in corporate credit is still low and unfortunately increases the risk of further speculative bubbles. the level of investment, both private and public, is still below pre-crisis levels and even the launch of the so-called juncker plan is unlikely to provide a breakthrough. as a result, eu countries that have used their national currencies for several years now have both higher economic growth and lower unemployment rates than most countries that use the euro.
mr president, this agreement will break new ground in terms of market access, but it will also enhance international rules in the fields of transport, digital and financial services. it will also cover a large proportion of the world’s trade in services. with this in mind, it is obvious that this is a great opportunity to open up new markets for companies and to consolidate the eu’s position as a world leader in services. throughout our work, we have supported a comprehensive and balanced negotiation process, and we have called for even more ambitious commitments across parties, sectors and levels of government – in particular in public procurement, telecoms, transport and financial services. however, let us not forget about consumer rights in terms of roaming fees, transport carriers or credit card fees when used abroad. with that in mind, i fully support the exclusion of public and audio-visual services from this agreement. it is also great to see that, in the digital sector, we are pushing for comprehensive prohibition of forced data localisation and for wide-reaching data protection. with all that in mind, i can fully support this report. i would like to congratulate and thank madam reding for her great work and success on this balanced report.
in writing. services are playing an increasingly important role in the world economy. the eu is now the world's largest exporter of services, providing jobs for millions of europeans in this sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. by contrast, allowing non-eu companies to provide services in europe will help to increase consumer choice and lower prices. the adoption by parliament of the tisa report is a landmark. the recommendations were supported by almost all political groups. this is proof that there is a consensus in parliament on the benefits this agreement can bring to businesses and consumers. it also sends a clear signal to the commission as to what can and what should not be in the final text. i am pleased that parliament's recommendations include recommendations on the principle of reciprocity in market access, the protection of european sensitive sectors, the safeguarding of data flows, and guidelines on facilitating smes. it is important that tisa is beneficial for all parties to the negotiations, but at the same time does not threaten european values and sensitive sectors. however, in working on this agreement, i have emphasised my separate position on the demands for a complete exclusion of public services from tisa, as i do not see sufficient reasons for this.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank mr lange for giving me the possibility to discuss this issue in depth with the honourable members. i am happy to update parliament on where we are on this file. let me start by stressing that the question is not whether china is a market economy or not. it is not – at least not in the way we understand the term. the question is whether the eu should change the method it must follow to calculate dumping in eu anti-dumping investigations. the debate is, as chairman lange said, about the expiry of the 15—year transitional period following china’s accession to the wto and about the application of certain anti-dumping methodologies and the implications for our jobs and our industry. anti—dumping actually only affects 1.38% of all our imports from china, but it can provide essential relief to individual companies or sectors suffering from unfair trading practices, dumping or subsidies. we are, in fact, analysing the three options that that mr lange referred to. first, not to change eu legislation. china obviously expects the eu to apply the wto protocol and change its methodology, as of 11 december this year. not doing so might have an impact on our trade and investment relations, in addition to potential legal challenges. this situation could have a cost for eu business, including in employment terms. these effects are, of course, very difficult, if not impossible, to estimate in advance. we can only speculate. there is a risk that this option would put the eu in breach of wto obligations, with possible economic effects. there are, indeed, different interpretations of section 15 of china’s accession protocol, but there are solid interpretations saying that at least some of the provisions will expire. the second alternative would be to remove china from the list of non—market-economy countries in our legislation without further conditions. this would be economically damaging to many eu industries and politically unrealistic. a preliminary estimation of the effects of this option has been circulated to you in an information note. third, to remove china from the list of market economy countries while, at the same time, introducing mitigating measures by strengthening the eu trade defence instrument to reflect the full extent of the numerous distortions that still exist in the chinese economy, thereby maintaining an effective anti-dumping instrument. we are of course aware that all these options have economic and social impacts and need to be properly assessed. no matter what path we choose, the commission remains committed to maintaining a strong anti-dumping instrument to protect our industry from unfair trade while respecting international obligations. the legal advice we have received indicates that the current method of dumping calculations need to be changed on the date of expiry of the transitional period. even under an alternative interpretation, there is a broad understanding that this so—called analogue country approach, as provided for in our current legislation, cannot be used as such anymore. so these are the basic options. they are all very technically complex and have effects. we are indeed carrying out a deep impact assessment. the paper you received is just a preliminary first assessment. the commitment is, of course, to keep you fully informed. we submitted this paper to you with preliminary findings, and this is part of the transparency we need to have with you. another issue is cooperation with other stakeholders. the commission is in regular contact with our main stakeholders, particularly eu industry, and they have all shared opinions with the commission. regarding the preliminary findings on the impact on eu industry and employment, we have based the study on robust methodology and existing data from the ongoing 52 cases that we have with china for the moment. this study estimates the following potential negative employment effects of changing from the current non-market economy methodology to the normal anti-dumping. they are estimates, and with each scenario it follows that we have made no mitigating measures. so this is the worst-case scenario. in the sectors covered by anti-dumping measures now, we estimate that between 34 000 and 77 000 jobs could be lost. in the longer run, if we look at other sectors that could also be affected, the study points at between 73 000 and 188 000 jobs. if you take into account the possible effects on downstream and upstream industries, we are talking about between 63 000 and 210 000 jobs. this is a lot, and it is important, but it is much lower than suggested by some other studies by, for instance, the washington-based economic policy institute. and, again, these estimations are made without any mitigating factors, so you should bear that in mind. we need to take these risks seriously into account, and this reminds us of the importance of the issue. regarding one of the other questions on coordination with other countries, we are indeed in contact with other partners on this. yet we must bear in mind that all wto members have to abide by their legal commitments and consider appropriate actions. some of our main trading partners do not have to amend their laws. we have to amend our laws, and that takes some time. some countries can make a decision in five minutes, so that makes us a little different from other partners such as the usa, for instance. so we are in a unique situation in that we are the only country that explicitly lists china as a non-market economy for anti-dumping. so should we choose to change our anti-dumping methodology – and we are not there yet, we are assessing all the alternatives, as i said – this would then require a change of legislation. in that legislation, you would of course be full co—legislators. it would be a proposal from the commission to the council and to parliament, so you would have a full say in that process. but we are not there yet, and this is a way to update you on where we are. i am happy to continue this debate to see if there are any remaining questions. thank you again for putting this on the agenda.
i'd like to think about what would happen if china were to ask to be recognized as a non-market economy. because if we ourselves impose artificial energy prices, then all energy prices are artificial, and so all prices are practically artificial and we are not a market economy. i hear it in this room that the nord stream pipeline should not be allowed to be built. very well, but it's her political decision, so it's not the market that decides, it's the politics that should decide. i would like to ask these hypocritical socialists who do not care about the welfare of the poor people, who want to buy cheap goods, but care about the big capitalists, care about their profits. you socialists! i ask you: what if china announced that this year, for christmas, they would give every child a free gift worth 100 euros? will you allow that, or will you protect european children from cheap chinese goods?
mr president, the multitude of trade defence actions across the world demonstrates that today’s china is not a fully-fledged member of the market economy global community. therefore china should not be treated like one until it completes the necessary reforms in line with the five criteria set by the eu. it is essential to maintain an effective anti-dumping tool to be able to react to the known challenges like those faced currently by steel and other industries. thanks to gigantic state support, chinese companies can choose to dominate also in many other areas, and the eu must be able to react adequately and effectively. granting market economy status to china would drastically reduce our ability to address these trade distortions. it could have a devastating effect on the european economy and consequently it would be impossible to support during the vote on the legislative proposal from the commission. i therefore believe that the commission should commission a formal impact assessment but also coordinate with all our strategic partners and stakeholders to explore ways to solve this issue that would ensure a fair and level playing field for european industries and sectors. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. if i bought a chinese car for twenty thousand instead of a european one for forty thousand, then i have twenty thousand left, which i spend on european goods at most, right? and while the steel industry will lose, other industries will gain. so you can see that if you sell something to china, i mean you buy something from china, the chinese get the euro. what are they going to do with those euros? they have to buy from us, which means we sell to china, and the chinese sell to us. the cheaper we buy from them, the better, not worse.
blue-card answer. – mr president, that is exactly what i was about to say: it was not a question to me personally. we all know that my colleague here is a great supporter of actually destroying the european union. he does not join in any constructive dialogue and i hardly see a reason to answer him.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. there is no doubt that biodiversity must be protected and poland is a country with such a rich biodiversity. the report by mr demesmaeker clearly identifies the problems with the current strategy for the protection of biodiversity. however, the shale gas extraction records reported by the greens go too far. if they were accepted, shale gas would be impossible to extract. poland is keen to increase its energy independence from russia. we can do that by extracting shale gas. this can be done without harming biodiversity and there is no reason to believe that shale gas extraction is more risky than other types of industrial human activity.
at this moment, the european commission is taking over my country, taking over poland. hungary has been attacked in this hall on many occasions, each time in the name of alleged violation of the values of the european union as defined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what does this have to do with the public's right to know the truth, the rule of law, freedom of speech, what does it have to do with the police withholding information from the public because it might compromise official immigration policy? what does the glorified minority rights have to do with withholding information, because they might justify political nonconformists, those who are in the minority at any given moment? it's time for all of us to think about what this campaign is really doing in the name of these supposed values.
madam president! we're here to discuss the state of the european union. the best illustration of this is that in this room a couple of minutes ago someone proposed that the european union should show the chinese how to develop quickly, and no one in this room laughed when they heard that kind of proposal. ladies and gentlemen, the chinese speak foreign languages and the chinese race, the yellow race, has an iq several points higher than us. if they read, if they hear this kind of talk, if they watch - if anyone wants to watch the proceedings of this parliament - they must laugh at us to death. i would very much like to see us finally speaking at a level where someone might read an economics textbook before they speak on this subject. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! there is no doubt that the phenomenon of unregistered work in the broad sense must be counteracted and even combated. but it would be best if we could create a system where it doesn't pay for the operators to create these kinds of bad practices. the eu platform should therefore also be an impetus for the development of a concrete strategy and the allocation of eu money, measures for the radical reduction of labour costs, i.e. tax breaks, subsidy programmes, employer vouchers, facilitation of labour market regulations, the creation of financial incentives for friendly employment and the strict enforcement of labour law and culture, including a campaign to raise public awareness of the great harm of undeclared work. and that's what i'm calling for.
the platform envisaged in this report can only help to reduce the phenomenon of undeclared work if it actually helps, through the exchange of information and experience, to identify the real, numerous and diverse causes of this phenomenon, and does not attempt to impose a single approach and action on the member states. excessive taxes and other mandatory financial burdens, and sometimes lower wages, are often cited as reasons for remaining in the grey area. but it can also be the lack of legal employment, the high cost of certain services in some countries, and the high wages. the development of the grey area is also contributed by rigid legislation, a justified lack of confidence in the social security system, especially pension schemes, which have been used by some governments in recent times to temporarily supplement the budget and a general lack of interest in law. it is also necessary to look at the actual acceptance of unregistered work among employers and employees. it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to tackle these problems.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. unregistered work is costly economically and socially: it distorts the market, it deprives workers of their rights. that's why this platform is so necessary, but it would be a bad thing if its activities were focused solely on control. many employers and employees take or offer unpaid work out of desperation, poverty, poor regulation, or too much taxation. i therefore call for the various tools to combat undeclared work to focus on transparency of legislation, tax facilitation, reduction of burdens on employers and the preparation and streamlining of legislation on temporary, additional and seasonal work. better regulations are particularly needed in the domestic work market, which is dominated by women and is very difficult to control because it would disturb the peace of the home. there are good examples of how to solve this dilemma: we have a well-functioning voucher system in belgium, in france. and that's why we should go in that direction. i'm not going to let you down. the domestic work market will grow rapidly because of europe's ageing population, because of the increased retirement age, because of the longer presence of women in the labour market, because of the capitalist pension system. that's why it's so important to prepare the regulations for this market. in summary, clear rules, ease for businesses, and then control.
the issue of undeclared work and shadow employment affects all member states, and although they have the greatest competence in preventing and discouraging it, i am convinced that action at european union level is equally desirable and can bring good results. unregistered work has a negative impact on member states' budgets and administrations. however, it should not be forgotten that this is primarily a social problem, with a negative impact on the professional, social and family life of many millions of our citizens. the complex nature of the problem of undeclared work means that only cooperation between partners at all levels can contribute to its solution. i think the platform's responsibilities have been well defined. it has been given specific tasks, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i am also pleased that the social partners have been included and recognised as members. i hope that the platform will be a place for real cooperation between partners and will be able to develop common strategies for law enforcement.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the harmful phenomenon of tax avoidance by firms using aggressive instruments is draining budget revenues in the member states of the european union and is a source of unfair competition between firms. i agree that attempts to solve this problem by individual countries are not working. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to radically reduce the scale of this phenomenon by adopting a legislative package comprising a draft directive against tax avoidance and a draft amendment to the directive on administrative cooperation. the commission is proposing six specific instruments to curb aggressive planning. these include limiting the tax deductibility of financial costs, eliminating double taxation, controlling foreign branches set up to transfer profits and controlling the transfer of assets abroad, and prohibiting the tax deduction of certain intra-corporate flows. these lines of action deserve support, especially as they are consistent with the g20 and oecd guidelines developed under the beps programme. however, i would like to make it clear that they must be compatible with the treaties, and in particular with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. in particular, there can be no question of harmonising tax rates. the measures adopted must not in any way affect the sovereign right of the member states to determine the level of taxation. they should also not unduly restrict the freedom of action of undertakings and impose additional administrative burdens on them.
in writing. ‒ the new provisions of the regulation appear to be a further step in the implementation of the idea of creating a common border guard to protect the eu's borders, which is intended to stem, among other things, the wave of illegal immigration into the community countries. the new entity is intended to replace the current frontex agency based in warsaw. in view of frontex's experience so far and the subsequent proposals for action in the area which have not convinced me, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ having examined the commission proposal for regulation no 562/2006, it should be noted that this is an important amendment aimed at giving the eu another power that has previously belonged to individual community countries, namely the protection of its own borders. this can be indirectly inferred from the change in the wording of recital 19, which is worded as follows: as the objective of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 and subsequent acts amending it, namely to establish rules applicable to the movement of persons across borders, could not be sufficiently achieved by the member states and could be better achieved at union level, the union could adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, that regulation and the subsequent acts amending it did not go beyond what was necessary to achieve that objective. the new provision in recital 19 of the regulation seems to be a further step in the implementation of the idea of establishing a common border guard to protect the eu's borders, which is intended to stem, among other things, the wave of illegal immigration into the community countries. the new entity is intended to replace the current frontex agency based in warsaw. france and germany have been advocating the creation of a common eu border guard for years. i do not agree with the amendment which provides for the eu to be given control over the protection of its borders in the long term, which in practice means giving the eu a considerable degree of sovereignty over the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft regulation on the movement of persons across borders in the european union. however, it should be stressed that this document does not introduce any new substantive solutions, but only unifies the provisions concerning the so-called schengen area, which have been frequently amended in recent years. the functioning of the schengen area is one of the pillars of the european union. these rules allow eu citizens to move freely within europe. border controls carried out by one union state shall be carried out in the interest of all member states. this imposes a specific obligation on the eu country issuing the travel document. border checks should therefore always be carried out in a professional manner and with respect for the persons checked. the unification of the text will undoubtedly make it easier for the border services of the european union countries to work.
in writing. ‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment around us. effective emission control requires international cooperation. both protocols list best available techniques for reducing emissions and reporting requirements, national emission limits and emission limits for different types of projects. the 1979 heavy metals protocol aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury to reduce respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, as well as biodiversity and agricultural production losses due to heavy metals. the second protocol aims to reduce and eliminate the discharge and emission of persistent organic pollutants, which include chemicals such as ddt and pollutants such as dioxins. the 2012 amendments to the metals protocol introduce stricter limits for dust emissions from certain stationary sources of emissions, as well as flexible provisions to allow for the entry into force of these amendments. the amendments to the second protocol, established in 2009, add new substances and supplement the provisions on existing substances. current eu legislation is in line with these amendments. since the ratification of the amendments by the eu will be a step towards their entry into force and will encourage other states parties to the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) to sign them, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals, persistent organic pollutants. pollution by heavy metals is one of the most important threats to human health and the environment. respiratory and cardiovascular diseases are common in europe today, and recent scientific research has confirmed a significant link between the levels of heavy metals in the food we eat and the air we breathe and mortality from cancers, which are fast becoming the next civilized disease of our time. the same factors are causing huge losses in agricultural production and biodiversity. i am therefore convinced that raising the limits for emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere, as well as updating the list of harmful metals, will significantly improve the quality of the environment and allow for the reconstruction and development of agriculture, thus positively affecting the health and lives of europeans.
in writing. ‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment. these substances do not respect national borders and therefore international cooperation is required to control their emissions effectively. the two 1998 protocols list the best available techniques (bat) for emission reductions and their reporting requirements, national emission limits and emission limits for specific types of projects. in other words, they set up the tools to enable emissions reductions and to track progress. the heavy metals protocol aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury to reduce respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, as well as biodiversity and agricultural production losses due to heavy metals. i supported the report because of the importance of the record for the health of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment and human life. research shows that air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before they reach the earth, and international action is needed to address these issues. the 1979 convention was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. it has established a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. however, almost 40 years after its signature, it is necessary to adapt to changes in both the economy and, above all, the environment. the latest amendment to the 1998 protocol, agreed in 2012, is the first to cover both a number of pollutants and their multiple effects, and to include specific national emission ceilings and reduction commitments for different types of pollutants. these actions should contribute to enhancing the protection of health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals, persistent organic pollutants. pollution by heavy metals is one of the most important threats to human health and the environment. respiratory and cardiovascular diseases are common in europe today, and recent scientific research has confirmed a significant link between the levels of heavy metals in the food we eat and the air we breathe and mortality from cancers, which are fast becoming the next civilized disease of our time. the same factors are causing huge losses in agricultural production and biodiversity. i am therefore convinced that raising the limits for emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere, as well as updating the list of harmful metals, will significantly improve the quality of the environment and allow for the reconstruction and development of agriculture, thus positively affecting the health and lives of europeans.
in writing. ‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment. these substances do not respect national borders and therefore international cooperation is required to control their emissions effectively. the two 1998 protocols list the best available techniques (bat) for emission reductions and their reporting requirements, national emission limits and emission limits for specific types of projects. in other words, they set up the tools to enable emissions reductions and to track progress. the protocol aims to reduce and eliminate the discharge and emission of persistent organic pollutants (pops), which include chemicals such as ddt and pollutants such as dioxins. i supported the report because of the importance of the record for the health of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreements under consideration between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro aim to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the agreements shall contain provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust by ukraine and montenegro and the exchange of information, including personal data. these cooperation agreements with ukraine and montenegro will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the area of organised crime and terrorism. with that in mind, i voted to accept the agreements.
in writing. ‒ on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro. organised crime and terrorism are topical and important issues for the whole of europe. we are constantly hearing about new criminal organisations and attacks that are destroying and terrorising european society. these things must be strongly opposed. the strengthening of operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro, and in particular the appointment by both countries of a liaison officer to eurojust, is therefore to be welcomed. i am convinced that the action taken under the agreement will strengthen europe in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the proposed approval of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to enhance judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust by ukraine and the exchange of information, including personal data. in accordance with article 26a (2) of the council decision of 28 february 2002 setting up eurojust, as last amended by council decision 2009/426/jha of 16 december 2008, it is for the council, acting by a qualified majority, to approve agreements concluded by eurojust with third countries or international organisations. i support the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with ukraine as it will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the area of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the fight against crossborder crime and terrorism requires close international cooperation. cooperation with ukraine is of particular importance in this context, especially in the context of the difficult internal and international situation in which our eastern neighbour finds itself. as a european union agency, eurojust is tasked with strengthening cooperation between member states in the fight against international crime and needs effective tools to operate more broadly and to look beyond the eu. we must remember that many criminal groups are cross-border and operate in several countries, some of which are eu member states. there is no doubt that ukraine is currently a weakly structured state that fails to adequately monitor all threats to public order and security. the conflict with russia and the de facto lack of control by kiev over the eastern border of ukraine pose the risk of increased activity by organised criminal groups or smugglers. the threat of terrorism, which is heading for europe alongside new waves of illegal immigrants from the middle east and africa, remains. this agreement responds to these challenges and provides for the formalisation of cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. the secondment of a liaison officer and the possibility to exchange information, including personal data, will speed up the decision-making process and the identification of threats. this cooperation could also prove extremely valuable in the context of ukraine's european ambitions.
in writing. ‒ on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro. organised crime and terrorism are topical and important issues for the whole of europe. we are constantly hearing about new criminal organisations and attacks that are destroying and terrorising european society. these things must be strongly opposed. the strengthening of operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine and montenegro, and in particular the appointment by both countries of a liaison officer to eurojust, is therefore to be welcomed. i am convinced that the action taken under the agreement will strengthen europe in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the proposed approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to enhance judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust by montenegro and the exchange of information, including personal data. in accordance with article 26a (2) of the council decision of 28 february 2002 setting up eurojust, as last amended by council decision 2009/426/jha of 16 december 2008, it is for the council, acting by a qualified majority, to approve agreements concluded by eurojust with third countries or international organisations. i support the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with montenegro as it will support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular in the area of organised crime and terrorism.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the creation of a european platform to improve cooperation on the prevention of undeclared work. available data show that on average 8% and in some countries up to 20% of europeans receive undeclared wages for their work. another 10% or more work without the necessary contracts. this shows that gray area work is still too common in europe. many people are unaware of the long-term consequences of such a practice. low official salaries and illegal employment not only mean lower revenues for the state budget and local government units, but above all, drastically reduce the amount of old age pension and cause lack of health care. the prevalence of this phenomenon may lead to a higher number of elderly people living in poverty in the union in the future. we must not forget that the problems of illegal employment or wages are varied, often depending on local specificities. specific actions to combat grey areas must therefore be undertaken at the lowest possible level and adapted to local requirements.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to create a platform that will facilitate the exchange of best practice and information and develop a common approach to undeclared work. i support the creation of such a platform, which i believe facilitates cross-border cooperation and knowledge exchange between law enforcement agencies. i voted for the party.
in writing. ‒ the problem of unregistered work is a very complex one. the very definition of this issue presents some difficulties, as it may concern both profit-making activities which have not been declared to the competent authorities and self-employment which has been declared but does not actually exist (i.e. the declared activity is not carried on). the avoidance of proper registration is usually the result of a desire to avoid taxation. to counter this phenomenon, the eu's legislative institutions are proposing the creation of a european platform to facilitate cooperation in the prevention of undeclared work. the platform is primarily intended to collect and exchange reliable information, joint planning and implementation of procedures. active action is necessary, especially given that the level of undeclared work in the member states is not decreasing and that therefore many citizens are still strongly motivated to practice and disseminate this practice. the proactive policy mentioned by the rapporteur seems to be the right approach, aimed at reaching out to those europeans who are moving in the so-called grey area and encouraging them to register their activities or change industries. understanding the problem, identifying the reasons and motivations of citizens who avoid registration, and then proposing solutions and encouraging honesty is the best way to deal with this practice.
in writing. ‒ i support the idea of setting up a platform for unregistered work and the method of action set out in the report. although the debate on the report was dominated by the voices for more effective control, i believe that the focus of the platform will be on preventing unregistered work, not on controlling it. this is particularly important in the fast-growing domestic work sector, which is predominantly female, often migrant, and which is difficult to control because it is carried out on private property and employs a private person. the experience of belgium and france shows that a successful solution could be to extend and universalise cheque systems to include care, education and welfare services. care services are particularly important because they cannot be postponed or abandoned: this is a key barrier to women's access to the labour market and the number one reason for their being pushed into a grey area, as workers and employers. finding the right solutions in the form of clear legislation, tax incentives and incentives will not only bring thousands of women out of the gray area, giving them social protection and contributions to their pensions, but will also help to reconcile work and family roles. this will strengthen the institution of the family and the economic independence of women.
in writing. ‒ unregistered work is a very common phenomenon in europe, which leads to the exploitation of workers, deprives national budgets of significant revenues, persistent market distortions and the principles of fair competition, thus weakening the eu-wide economy. the fact that unregistered work is not confined to the borders of one country makes cooperation within the european union all the more important. the establishment of a platform involving all eu member states can contribute to the fight against undeclared work and to the development of a coherent approach to the issue of combating undeclared work. the platform should therefore lead to the exchange of information and best practices between national institutions such as employment promotion agencies, tax authorities and immigration authorities, while involving the economic and social partners. however, there is no doubt that it will be necessary to carry out a thorough assessment of the extent to which such a form of cooperation between the european commission and member states' authorities serves the objectives set out in the decision of the european parliament and of the council and whether the benefits of such a form of cooperation justify the costs associated with the functioning of the platform.
in writing. ‒ the functioning of the employment grey area is detrimental to economic growth, worker safety and the stability of the social benefits system. the high level of mobility in the european union is conducive to this phenomenon, especially in a cross-border context. closer cooperation between the national labour market monitoring authorities and inspectorates in the different member states is a necessary and welcome step. the establishment of a platform to improve cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work is intended to develop best practices and joint initiatives to combat undeclared work more effectively. this will guarantee the independence of the national authorities, whose competences will not be reduced, and will allow the efforts of the member states and the social partners (including employers' and workers' organisations) and international institutions to be combined. the main tasks of this platform will be to define many phenomena that are perceived differently in different member states, to ensure the rapid exchange of information on cases of breaches of the law and to create a system of incentives for employers to register workers who use unregistered work. we must remember that the greatest victims of the grey area are the unregistered workers themselves, whose rights to limited hours, social benefits or insurance against workplace accidents cannot be enforced. they're the ones we need to protect first.
in writing. ‒ the report notes with concern the overall trend towards biodiversity loss and calls on the commission and the member states to make this a political priority in order to achieve the 2020 targets. the proposed measures should include the integration of biodiversity into other policy areas such as agriculture and forestry, an increase in the number of natura 2000 sites with management plans and an eu action plan on wildlife trade. at this point, it should be noted that environmental policy and economic development are not mutually exclusive, with the alternative socioeconomic cost of not meeting the 2020 targets estimated at eur 50 billion per year, and one in six jobs in the eu being dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the relevant document.
in writing. ‒ the commission's review of biodiversity can make a decisive contribution to halting biodiversity loss and, above all, to increasing the european union's commitment to global biodiversity. i share the rapporteur's concern about the growing trend towards biodiversity loss. i would also like to point out that statistics show that one in six jobs in the european union depends on biodiversity and nature. unfortunately, i cannot fully support the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy and all the solutions it proposes, because i am strongly opposed to the attempt to ban shale gas extraction, which is why i was forced to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ europe's biodiversity is at risk. more than three quarters of important natural habitats in the union are in very poor condition and many animal and plant species are threatened with extinction. this is why the eu adopted a strategy in 2011 with the main objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020. restoring natural ecosystems and protecting the environment are among the most important challenges facing the eu today. today, when the mid-term review of the adopted and implemented plan is being carried out, it is necessary to emphasise the need to put into practice what has been agreed and accepted by the member states. the first priority is to improve the application of environmental laws in the various areas. the european commission monitors and assesses the performance of countries in meeting the strategy's objectives and, as it says, while the current implementation results show improvements in many areas, the eu countries must continue to work to fully meet their commitments. environmental issues are close to our citizens, as the polls show, and the european union remains a world leader in biodiversity conservation.
in writing. ‒ in october 2015, the commission published a mid-term review of the eu's biodiversity strategy, analysing progress towards halting the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services by 2020, restoring ecosystems where possible and increasing the eu's commitment to preventing global biodiversity loss. the mid-term review concluded that this objective can only be achieved if implementation and enforcement efforts are much bolder and more ambitious. parliament noted with concern the general trend towards biodiversity loss and called on the commission and the member states to make this a political priority in order to achieve the 2020 targets. the proposed measures include the integration of biodiversity into other policy areas such as agriculture and forestry, an increase in the number of natura 2000 sites with management plans and an eu action plan on wildlife trade. parliament also stressed that environmental policy and economic development are not mutually exclusive, with the alternative socio-economic cost of not meeting the 2020 targets estimated at eur 50 billion per year and one in six jobs in the eu being dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity. since the adoption of paragraph 88 calling for the cessation of shale gas extraction, i abstained from voting
in writing. ‒ the protection and promotion of biodiversity is reflected in eu legislation, which is continuously committed to further strengthening the convention on biological diversity and its implementation. in this context, it is particularly important to maintain political commitment not only at the eu legislative level but also at the regional and local level in the member states, as these have the greatest potential and opportunities to inform and raise public awareness of biodiversity. in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, biodiversity conservation also has a very clear economic importance, especially when one in six jobs in the eu is dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity, as this report shows. it is worth noting that agriculture plays a very important role in this context, which can be both extremely beneficial and detrimental if certain standards are not respected. good, sustainable farming practices can make a huge contribution to the conservation and protection of habitats, the containment of land degradation, the rational management of water resources, which can lead to effective climate change mitigation and the development of beneficial consumption patterns, while also serving important educational functions for those parts of society that are not in contact with nature and agriculture or forestry on a daily basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution on the eu strategy for the protection of biological diversity. this strategy is an important part of the european union's overall strategy for the environment, society and the economy. to make the strategy a reality, heads of state or government have set a core objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services. i agree with the proposed formula of the strategy, which is based on six pillars, each with its own objectives: full implementation of the birds and habitats directive; maintaining and restoring ecosystems and their functions; increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the maintenance and enhancement of biodiversity; ensuring the sustainable use of fisheries resources; combating invasive alien species; and increasing the eu's commitment to preventing global biodiversity loss. the adopted report also envisages the implementation of additional innovative solutions, such as the trans-european green infrastructure network ten-g, which can bring mutual benefits for society, the environment and the economy. according to the eurobarometer on biodiversity, at least 8 out of 10 citizens stress that the consequences for biodiversity loss are serious. the survey also shows that citizens want to be informed about this issue on a regular basis. as has been rightly noted, nature and biodiversity are of great importance to citizens. i agree with the thesis that biodiversity and the environment must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and integrated europe.
in writing. ‒ on 2 february 2016, a vote was held on the report by mr demesmaeker on the 'mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy', the european commission's report on the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020. the objective of the european biodiversity strategy for 2020 is to halt and restore as much as possible by 2020 biodiversity loss and degradation of ecosystem services and to contribute to the prevention of global biodiversity loss. there is no doubt that biodiversity must be protected, since it affects the sustainability of ecosystems in which humans are an integral part. the draft resolution by mr demesmaeker was well balanced and correctly identified the issues in the eu's biodiversity strategy. unfortunately, the final version of the bill included a ban on shale gas extraction. i do not think there is any basis for claiming that shale gas extraction is more risky than other industrial activities. i did not vote for the whole report because of the wording.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on this report, which is the european parliament's response to the commission's mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy in 2015. while the general direction of this report is correct and i agree with it on many points, the content of article 88, which calls for a total ban on the use of hydraulic fracturing by member states, is unacceptable. biodiversity and ecosystem balance is not only an ecological issue, but also has an economic dimension, as one in six jobs in the eu depends on nature and a clean environment. this is particularly the case in sectors such as agriculture and tourism, which from poland's point of view are key sectors of the economy. however, proposals as far-reaching as banning shale gas extraction could threaten the future energy security of poland and many countries in our region. this is all the more unacceptable since there is no convincing scientific evidence of the environmental harmfulness of hydraulic fracturing. economic development is largely dependent on its own cheap energy. poland has a large potential for shale gas extraction and must be able to exploit this potential. in the face of the eu's decarbonisation policy, we cannot accept another reduction in our energy independence.
when people's lives are in danger, they are entitled to asylum, of course, but in the first country they come to. their lives are no longer in danger there. and why do they keep going? because a blonde from berlin promised them a big pension. or did she do it out of stupidity? it's hard to say, but i'm afraid mr. bruno gollnisch may be right that someone is interested in getting rid of europeans and replacing them with more docile slaves from other continents. and then, when mao tse-tung died and the rice rationing system was ended, the chinese population decreased by 100 million. and here, too, ladies and gentlemen, these 10,000 children died because the refugees registered one child in several families, and when fingerprints were introduced, 10,000 children mysteriously disappeared. and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed!
the question asked by raising the blue card. in poland, we respect the decision of sweden, the swedish people. i repeat, we respect the decisions to open up, the culture of hospitality - as in germany - and then the decision, which i understand is painful for the state, to close the borders and re-establish controls. but this is a decision made by sweden and the swedish people. my question is: are you able to accept the sovereign decision of the poles or the czechs in this matter?
the threats to the union's security are destabilisation in the south and russian policy in the east. migration is one of the consequences in both cases. as regards the south, i accept the support mechanism for turkey, i support peace efforts in our southern neighbourhood, i support the actions and assistance of frontex and the voluntary support of our southern members in strengthening the borders, i support the support of france after the invoking of article 42 (7) of the treaty. as for the eastern neighbourhood, poland has taken in almost a million migrants, 99 percent of them economic migrants. no one is deporting them, we're trying to give them jobs and decent living conditions. the only thing we would ask is that poland, in the context of immigration policy, not be stigmatized in this house and in the media.
the way the european union handles a crisis will have a huge impact on its future functioning and, more generally, on its raison d'être. one of the elements of the european union's effectiveness is the skillful use of resources, including financial resources. the european parliament is following the issues of the mechanism for turkey with great attention. i would therefore like to ask the presidency: what are the consequences of this decision today? what is the progress made by member states in meeting their commitment? how will the mechanism for turkey affect what we now call budgetary unity, i.e. the creation of mechanisms around the budget? we were recently in amsterdam for a conference on the budget, and so i think that in the light of these serious discussions we need to think about new instruments that are changing the way the european budget works. we need to address this now, because these difficult situations are going to be repeated, and so we need to be prepared for very difficult and very complicated times. hence my question: what about the mechanism for turkey? (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. your question is obviously an accusation, so it's difficult to say what the motives are at this point. one thing is certain, of course, turkey is exploiting this situation for its own interests. i couldn't agree more. but for us, the interests of the european union, the interests of our citizens, are paramount. so the question is, can we create a mechanism that is fair, transparent and effective? but i agree that the situation is very difficult and it concerns turkish interests.
madam president! i have great respect for my speakers, but if i were to ask you now, how many of you have been to a refugee camp, how many hands would you raise? i don't know. i don't ask that question. i was in a refugee camp myself this year. i spent part of my vacation on this because it was in kurdistan. and ladies and gentlemen, a lot of them don't want to go to europe at all, they want to go back to their own country, where the islamic state now rules. i think it is necessary and worthwhile to give money not only to turkey but also to kurdistan so that its people can stay there because they have close to their homes. and finally, let's not be hypocrites! today we are talking about european solidarity. i remember when the french president - and i'm speaking to my french friends - spoke here in december 2007, saying that the climate package was great for the old union, but not so much for the new. did you speak of european solidarity then? and did my german friends talk about european solidarity when they built nord stream with the russians? so we must speak of european solidarity in all its dimensions, not just in this one.
the disappearance of a large number of migrant children in the european union raises questions about the level of security in refugee camps. it also shows the weakness of the it databases on people coming to europe. we know that some of these children had no documents, but they had been pre-registered in the eu. now we fear that they are being forced by gangs into slave labor or even prostitution. how can we find these children if we still do not have an integrated system of all databases in the european union, such as eurodag, the schengen information system and others, and european institutions such as easo, frontex and even europol do not have full access to them? how can the investigation of smuggling gangs be carried out effectively if the relevant services in the member states are not always willing to fully share the necessary information? finally, how can frontex coordinate the protection of the external borders if it cannot use the schengen information system in the country with the highest migration rate? how did it come to pass that we set up frontex in the union, then created the schengen information system, and then blocked the possibility of these institutions working together not only in times of peace but also in times of crisis?
madam president! we've heard a long list of moving statements on immigration. the one thing missing from this long list is credibility. why do we keep silent when someone specifically calls for help or when we hear uncomfortable truths? for example, when we hear the truth about the violence against refugees, against christian refugees by immigrants, not far away, but in refugee centers in our cities. the specific facts of this case, which are being reported to the european parliament, are contained in this resolution and have been awaiting consideration for many weeks. because it's uncomfortable to hear that refugee and immigration are not just different, but sometimes even opposite concepts. this is not about solidarity, but about imposing multiculturalism on those countries that have so far been lucky to avoid it.
i would like to say a few words about the schengen area, which is our common achievement and one we should be proud of and defend. it is a bold, unique and innovative project that has been one of the european union's hallmarks for many years. it laid the foundations for the practical implementation of the principle of free movement of goods, services and persons. the cost of permanently suspending the zone would be too high, not only politically but also economically and socially. we just can't afford that. so i think that in a crisis, what we should do is to strengthen that system. all efforts should be focused on strengthening the external borders of the schengen area and immediate and effective action and appropriate measures should be taken to that end. in addition, a partnership to resolve the immigration crisis with turkey needs to be given special attention at this time. the union has already taken concrete action in this area. at the moment, we need to ensure that the agreement is implemented in an efficient and effective manner by both sides.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. one of the european union's most important responsibilities is to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to those in need. but we also share a common concern for european values, our cultural identity and the safety of our citizens. unfortunately, these roles are more difficult to fulfil now than they were 10 or 15 years ago, because europe cannot take in all those who need help, and the fears of taking in people are becoming more and more evident among europeans. to meet our international obligations, we must look for many parallel paths. one of these is undoubtedly aid to refugees currently in turkey. however, the turkish state cannot be left alone in this endeavour. we need help, including financial help. but this is not buying the opportunity to be passive in the refugee crisis. the most important objective facing the european union is to pursue a policy of ending all hostilities in the region. without it, the suffering and misery of these people will not be overcome quickly. the creation of the best possible conditions for the protection of human dignity, including in the camps, is something the union can do now, with rapidly visible results. in conclusion, in addition to the many actions we need to take in the context of the migration crisis, a prudent financial support to the turkish side is one possible solution.
in writing. when we talk about the wave of refugees coming into the european union, we have to link this to the discussion about support for turkey. in 2015, 1.1 million refugees arrived in the european union. in turkey, there are now almost 3 million refugees in various camps, mainly from syria. europe is struggling to cope with the current wave of refugees, and it is not difficult to see what would happen if this wave were to be exacerbated by the refugees currently in turkey. the country should therefore receive strong eu support, especially measures to provide refugees with civilised living conditions. similarly, jordan and lebanon, which are dealing with the effects of the syrian war and the influx of its victims into their territory, should be treated in the same way. it's an important action, but it's an emergency. the most important thing would be a strong commitment by the international community to limit the war in syria. the european union should be as active as possible in this area. the refugee crisis is largely the result of the war in syria. as long as this war continues, its victims will seek a better life.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mrs iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the new strategy on gender equality and women's rights after 2015 (o-000006/2016 - b8-0103/2016) (2016/2526 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. leftist groups are demanding the promotion of ideological, gender-based demands: the sexualization of children, the promotion of lgbti, gender parity, changes in both the definition of gender and the family. you have created a situation where traditional families can feel discriminated against because they are constantly told that they are unmodern, backward, un-european. the number of so-called anti-discrimination regulations adopted by the european parliament so far is enormous. so there's no reason to take another one. my group opposes the left's resolution, proposing a completely different, rational approach. ladies and gentlemen! it's time to get back to the roots. we must build on the values on which the european union was founded. do not be ashamed of your christian heritage, for it is a source of wisdom and strength.
in writing. the potential withdrawal of certain active substances from plant protection products is the implementation of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. endocrine disruptors, as we're talking about, are substances that have a potentially large impact on the environment. on the one hand, some of them pose potential risks to human health, some of them are carcinogenic, for example. they can also be a threat to wildlife: they can affect reproduction (they reduce the fertility of fish when they enter the water) or even cause the extinction of some species (the link between ed and the mass extinction of bees is being investigated). on the other hand, they are very effective and their use reduces the use of plant protection products in general. a total ban on their use could mean large crop losses due to the lack of effective alternative measures. there is also a risk that some farmers will start to unofficially import products, for example from ukraine, whose composition and harmfulness will not be known. in order to effectively protect the environment and at the same time not to impose a disproportionate burden on farmers, the assessment criteria should be revised so that not all active substances are included in the category of endocrine disruptors, but only those that have a negative impact on the environment and human health.
in writing. if we misdefined the criteria for endocrine disruptors, thereby preventing the use of extremely useful and safe plant protection products, we would cause enormous harm to our farmers. the deprivation of them - or rather of us, as a farmer myself - of the necessary tools will seriously reduce the productivity of agricultural production, reduce the competitiveness of european agriculture and lead to a fall in incomes. moreover, the reduction in investment in the plant protection industry will result in job losses and also, to some extent, in the suppression of scientific research carried out by industry representatives in conjunction with independent organisations. i strongly believe that we should establish criteria to define substances that are actually dangerous. however, first we need to carry out comprehensive, thorough studies to provide a full risk assessment of the use of hormonally active substances in protective and biocidal products. innovation in agriculture is very much needed, but development must be done sensibly, after careful consideration of the possible implications of legislative decision-making. the european commission's proposal to amend the legislation in the light of the partial results of the analyses seems to be a bad idea, which could complicate procedures and disrupt the functioning of the european market. let us wait until the full evaluation of the effects of endocrine disruptors is completed and then consider the appropriate legal regulation.
mr. chairman, please! in cases as difficult as those on the agenda for the next council, trust is most needed. and that's a problem, because how can we solve the immigration problem, how can we solve the border sealing problem, if we don't trust each other as member states. and yet, border management, the solution to this problem, is a necessary condition for maintaining the free movement of people, the free movement of goods, but also the entire market. it is also a condition for the functioning of schengen. it was once calculated that one hour of truck stopping at the border cost 55 euros. secondly, the free movement of persons and goods is also linked to the second theme of the summit. this is a matter for britain, for britain's eventual exit. all the solutions - or most of them - that will be adopted in this case will be for the whole of the union, not just for the united kingdom. i would like to stress that the proposal put forward by the council presupposes the maintenance of the union's pillars of freedom of movement and non-discrimination. i believe that there is no place for discrimination against its citizens, no matter what country they are in, and that should be upheld. of course, where these rights are abused, there must be a reaction. and thirdly, the declaration on strengthening the principle of subsidiarity of national parliaments is also very important. the mechanism we have is in need of improvement, and i think we all agree.
i want to affirm the vienna convention on the law of treaties. poland is bound by it, as are the other member states of the european union. i respect the political will of the british people, but i also believe that the urgent decision of the council and consequently the amendments to the treaties should be negotiated in accordance with the provisions of the vienna convention.
in writing. the next european summit will address the two most pressing issues in the eu today, namely the negotiations with the uk and the migration crisis. how and whether we meet these challenges will be crucial to the future of the european project. earlier this week, president tusk presented his proposal for changes to change the uk's attitude towards the eu. this is certainly a good basis for compromise, but much will depend on whether we can avoid a situation in which too much privilege for the uk will lead to an avalanche of claims from other member states. in this situation, integration can be reduced to a "menu" at best, and at worst, it can be disintegrated. the position of the so-called new member states, which have serious reservations about the restrictions on social benefits for immigrants demanded by london, will also be relevant. the migration crisis, which is now somewhat subsided by the winter, but which is certain to return with increased intensity in the spring, is certainly a greater threat to the community. recently, there has been a new approach to refugees among western european countries, such as sweden, which has started to send back people who do not meet the conditions for asylum. if this process is intensified, and perhaps combined with some form of financial support for the refugees being returned, it is likely to dampen the tide of new arrivals.
in writing. in the context of the upcoming european council summit, which will focus in large part on migration, i would like to draw particular attention to the use of the earth observation satellite systems developed in the eu in the field of internal security of the member states. to deal effectively with the millions of asylum seekers in europe, it is crucial to have reliable information on, for example, the number of people moving within the eu's external borders. the system that can provide this information is already in place in the eu. this is the copernicus earth observation satellite system. one of the five copernicus priority actions is border surveillance, border traffic, maritime traffic, and support for the eu's external action. satellites collect radar and optical data on both the sea and land. they cover national borders, coastlines or transport routes that are critical to security. in this way, copernicus is able to provide comprehensive information on migration movements. the key is to make good use of the information received, to coordinate actions and thus to cooperate more effectively between member states, and to support the further development of the programme, which will allow us to respond more quickly to potential crises in the future.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova of june 2014 includes a bilateral safeguard clause. the agreement provides, inter alia, for a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the most-favoured-country duty rate to be reintroduced in the event that imports of certain agricultural products, vegetables and beverages from moldova exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce into the internal legal order of the eu the instrument necessary to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the mechanism to prevent customs duties from being circumvented. given the value of the eu's relations with moldova, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism to the republic of moldova plays a very important role in the commission's trade policy. the association agreement with moldova protects the european union's industry without exposing it to economic losses. the republic of moldova, which is not a member of the european union, should supply agricultural products, vegetables and beverages without exceeding certain thresholds, as well as with a full justification of the exact origin of the products in question. i fully support the above proposal of the european parliament and the council and i support the obligation for the commission to report on the application and implementation of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova signed in june 2014 includes a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows preferences to be temporarily suspended if their application leads to an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic losses to the eu industry. in addition, the scheme also provides for a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the most-favoured-country duty rate to be reintroduced in the event that imports of certain agricultural products, vegetables and beverages from moldova exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce into the internal legal order of the eu the instrument necessary to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the mechanism to prevent customs duties from being circumvented. the report emphasises in particular the commission's reporting obligation, under which the commission submits to the co-authors and subsequently publishes an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation. reporting is important for parliamentary scrutiny of the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy and for enhancing its transparency. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with georgia of june 2014 contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism which allows the most-favoured-country duty rate to be reintroduced if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia listed in annex ii-c to the agreement exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. the commission may decide to suspend temporarily the preferential customs duties applicable to the products concerned or to decide that such suspension is not appropriate. the temporary suspension of preferential duties shall apply for a maximum period of six months from the date of publication of the decision suspending the preferential duties. in order to introduce into the internal legal order of the eu the instrument necessary to apply the abovementioned anti-circumvention mechanism, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the republic of moldova, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an anti-circumvention mechanism against georgia. it will allow the re-introduction of customs duties in case of breach of certain thresholds by georgia and in the absence of a proper justification of the exact origin of agricultural products transported across the borders of the member states of the european union. the commission's reporting on the application and implementation of the regulation will also play a key role in enhancing the transparency of the commission's trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with georgia signed in june 2014 contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism which allows the most-favoured-country duty rate to be reintroduced if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia listed in annex ii-c to the agreement exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. the commission may decide to suspend temporarily the preferential customs duties applicable to the products concerned or to decide that such suspension is not appropriate. the temporary suspension of preferential duties shall apply for a maximum period of six months from the date of publication of the decision suspending the preferential duties. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce into the internal legal order of the eu the instrument necessary to apply the abovementioned anti-circumvention mechanism. the report stresses in particular the commission's reporting obligation, according to which the commission is to submit to the co-rapporteurs and subsequently publish an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation. reporting is important for parliamentary scrutiny of the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy and for enhancing its transparency. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the union and georgia contains an anti-circumvention mechanism which allows the re-introduction of a duty rate where imports of certain agricultural products exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. however, a regulation of the european parliament and the eu council is needed to implement this instrument. the temporary suspension of preferential duties imposed by the union is necessary for legal reasons, but should be maintained for as short a period as possible so that georgia, one of the poorest countries in europe, can re-establish as soon as possible the full benefits of the association agreement with the union. the parliament's report also rightly stresses the need for the european commission to report more in detail on the application of this mechanism. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the ep document.
in writing. ‒ according to who, there are 314 million blind and partially sighted people in the world today. the polish blind union has about 60,000 members. at the same time, it is estimated that there are 300,000 people in poland who cannot read the printed page. this is a very important issue not only for our society, but also a global issue. the resolution, drawn up by the peti committee, calls for and appeals for the speedy ratification of the treaty, without having to wait for the ruling of the court of justice of the eu, given the importance of the treaty for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with print disabilities, and the fact that waiting for the ruling of the court of justice would significantly delay ratification. i fully support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr de gucht and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty was adopted on 28 june 2013 at the diplomatic conference of the world intellectual property organisation (wipo). the aim was to establish an international standard for the use of copyrighted works by blind and visually impaired persons. in europe, there are 2 550 000 blind people and 23 800 000 visually impaired people, which equals more than 26 million citizens concerned about these changes. yet eu member states are delaying ratification of the treaty, and seven countries at council level are actually hindering the process. in many countries, including poland, there is legislation providing for facilitated access to works by the blind and visually impaired (in formats adapted to their needs), but this currently covers only 5% of publications in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries. the eu and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014 and have thus committed themselves to ratify it. furthermore, articles 24 and 30 of the un convention emphasise the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, while ensuring that copyright protection provisions do not constitute an unjustified barrier to access to cultural materials. the vote today is a call to the european parliament to ratify the treaty by all the member states of the european union without delay and to bring its provisions into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on the facilitation of access to published works for blind, visually impaired and other print disabled persons. the entry into force of this treaty represents an opportunity for 30 million europeans to have easier access to publications in accessible formats for the visually impaired, and thus to increase their participation in education, cultural and social life and, in general, to improve their quality of life. according to article 14 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, 'everyone has the right to education and to have access to vocational and continuing training'. it is therefore our task to take urgent action to ensure that people with disabilities can fully enjoy their rights in this area. i would stress that this is a case of fundamental rights for these people, not some additional rights. given that only a small percentage of books worldwide are adapted to the needs of disabled people, it is necessary to facilitate access to and increase the current collections. the marrakesh treaty gives us that opportunity, and i therefore urge you once again to ratify it as soon as possible and to bring it into force.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 17 september 2015, the peti committee heard petition no 924/2011, by dan pescod (uk) on behalf of the european blind union (ebu) and the royal national institute of blind people (rnib), on access to books and other printed materials for blind people. in view of the numerous petitions on this subject, the peti members expressed their concern at the lack of approval by the council of the european union of the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on the facilitation of access to published printed works for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with print disabilities (marrakesh treaty). although many eu member states have already implemented the treaty, seven have not yet done so. the resolution calls for the treaty to be ratified more quickly without waiting for the court of justice of the eu to give its ruling, given the importance of the treaty for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with print disabilities, and the fact that waiting for the court of justice to give its ruling would significantly delay ratification. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ participation in cultural life remains one of the key elements of community life. the world intellectual property organisation's treaty on the facilitation of access to published works of printed matter for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with print disabilities focuses on the right to participate in cultural life and the rights of users as such and aims to establish an international standard for the use of works of printed matter protected by copyright by persons with visual disabilities. according to who, there are 285 million people in the world today who are visually impaired. despite the fact that many countries have laws to facilitate access to works by blind and partially sighted people, less than 5% of the world's printed publications are accessible in accessible formats. the need to accept the marrakesh treaty is therefore urgent. the treaty requires ratification by both the european union and the signatory countries and will require the introduction or adaptation of a number of provisions. however, it should also be emphasised that the need to ensure satisfactory, more complete access to printed materials for visually impaired persons should go hand in hand with the protection of the interests of publishers in the production and distribution of printed formats of works.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the motions for resolutions in which the european parliament opposes the european commission's executive decisions allowing the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean varieties. as we know, the main ingredient in feed is protein, mainly contained in soybean meal. however, despite the increasing production of soybeans in the european union, we are not able to meet the demand for high-protein feed components necessary for animal production. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. almost all imported soybeans are genetically modified, which is about 30% cheaper than unmodified soybeans. the conclusion is therefore very simple: if we prevent the import of cheaper soybeans, without being able to produce enough to meet our own needs, the european union will be forced to import much more expensive soybeans or to increase imports of meat that has been produced using genetically modified soybeans. the european economy will suffer severe losses, farmers will lose their income and consumers will end up consuming products containing genetically modified organisms anyway. i therefore do not support the objection prepared by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that europe should use the latest scientific developments to develop its agriculture and compete internationally, while ensuring food security for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution opposing the possibility of trade in products containing fg72 modified soybean, because the content of this resolution is a threat to the interests of polish farmers. genetically modified soybeans are a rich source of protein and an important component of feed used in poultry farming. poland, as the largest poultry producer in the region, has a chance to maintain its position only if competitive conditions for producers are maintained. the gmo scientific panel of the european food safety authority (efsa) has published three scientific opinions on the safety assessment of, inter alia, genetically modified soybean fg72 and soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788, confirming the safety of both grains for health and the environment compared to their unmodified counterparts. however, gm soybeans are cheaper and thus their availability affects the competitiveness of agricultural production.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution opposing the possibility of trade in products containing modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788, as it is in the interest of polish farmers to retain the possibility of buying soybean components for feed. only about 10% of the feed used is more expensive organic feed. the ban on the purchase of cheaper genetically engineered feed and its components would hit polish poultry producers first and would have a negative impact on poultry exports, in which poland is a leader.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution opposing the possibility of trade in products containing modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788, as it is in the interest of polish farmers to retain the possibility of buying soybean components for feed. only about 10% of the feed used is more expensive organic feed. the ban on the purchase of cheaper genetically engineered feed and its components would hit polish poultry producers first and would have a negative impact on poultry exports, in which poland is a leader.
in writing. ‒ real driving emissions (rde) testing is to be introduced as a new requirement for the type-approval of new cars and vans as an additional laboratory test. the rde aims to provide real-world vehicle emission control and thus to solve the problem of high nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions from diesel vehicles and to eliminate the use of defeat devices, which occurred in the case of vw. the main reason why countries do not meet their airborne nox limits is that diesel vehicles emit significantly more under real-world conditions than under laboratory conditions. the introduction of rde tests will reduce the average nox emissions from these engines and help countries to meet their requirements, e.g. under the nec directive. looking at the document in question, i share the concerns of politicians from other groups, particularly those concerning the path to rde by a compliance factor of 2.1. the tests currently required by the commission have remained unchanged for almost thirty years. in view of the above, i supported the objection in the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution of the envi parliamentary committee calling for the withdrawal of the draft ec regulation on urea emissions while driving (rde). the occurrence of increased nox with a significant reduction in co2 emissions by pe, greater than for petrol engines, was unexpected and was incremental rather than linear, resulting from exceeding a certain temperature threshold in the combustion chambers of diesel engines. the commission is right to take the time to remedy this clear defect. so i think by 2019, that emissions should be equivalent to what euro 5 diesel engines were. the ec project gives the car companies time to develop appropriate technical solutions. this is a realistic solution that will save the continuity of diesel engine production with great, promising potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution for several important reasons, namely: i consider it scientifically incorrect to assume a linear increase in co2 and nox reductions in parallel, scientific opinions convincingly prove the absence of such a rule; convincing are the commission's statements on the revision of the way emissions are measured and the new timetable. i welcome with great hope and expectation the commission statement by commissioner e. bieńkowska.
in writing. ‒ the problem of the discrepancy between the laboratory and everyday emissions of passenger cars with diesel engines has caused a huge stir in both europe and the us. the lack of adequate tools to detect abuse and fraud in the approval process of new car models has caused a scandal that the european parliament will be looking into. the adoption of this objection will only delay the introduction of the obligation to test cars in real driving conditions. not only does this delay not necessarily lead to better solutions, but it may lead to further abuse by the automotive companies. the proposed standard allowing diesel cars to exceed the laboratory emissions of nitrogen oxides by 2,1 times in normal operation by 2017 and to achieve full compliance of both laboratory and real-world emissions by 2020 seems to be a reasonable proposal. the regulation also provides for some flexibility and an annual review of the proposed standards to better match existing legislation to the actions and efforts of the automotive industry. in deciding to adopt the proposed standards, however, we must bear in mind that concern for the environment cannot mean ignoring economic factors, including the functioning of such an important sector for the european economy and labour market as the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ the tisa agreement provides the community with an opportunity to strengthen its position as the world's largest exporter of services with a 25% share of the global services market and a positive trade balance of eur 170 billion in 2013. the report adopted today was designed to assess the first two and a half years and 13 rounds of negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). from the initial 16 parties, the agreement has been extended to 24 parties, including the eu, which in turn represents 28 countries. in total, 51 countries will be involved in the agreement: 32 in europe, 7 in asia, 10 in the americas and 2 in oceania. the aim of the agreement is to liberalize international trade in services such as banking, health care and transport. services account for 75% of the value of the us economy, and the european union does the same. the value of eu services exports has doubled over the last ten years, reaching eur 728 billion in 2014. in addition, the services sector employs 70% of the eu's workforce and generates 40% of the value of goods exported from europe. the agreement has the potential to further stimulate job creation in the eu. it is estimated that 90% of the new jobs that will be created in the eu by 2025 will be in the services sector.
in writing. ‒ most people have never heard of the trade in services agreement (tisa). it is an agreement on trade in services to which the 50 member states of the wto (world trade organisation), including 28 eu countries, are parties. the countries involved in the agreement account for 70% of the world market for services. the formal negotiations, held in geneva, began in the spring of 2013 and remained secret from the general public, despite the fact that some of the documents appeared on the website wikileaks in april 2014. as one might expect, the incident immediately triggered a wave of criticism of the agreement. the main objective of the agreement is liberalisation in the services sector: opening up markets and improving rules in areas such as financial services, telecommunications, online trade, maritime transport and the movement of workers to provide services abroad. each party shall make its proposals and take an active part in the negotiations. the european union is a leader in the export and import of services on the world market, and we therefore seek to regulate the legislation on international trade in services as best as possible. the report analyses the negotiations so far and calls for greater rights for consumers in the agreement, while also hoping that the agreement will eventually guarantee respect for community standards and the rights of workers.
in writing. ‒ the global economy is now a system of interconnected vessels. while wto agreements ensure very low tariffs for international trade in goods and thus contribute to an increase in trade, there are still many tariff barriers in the services sector. the negotiations on tisa, which have been ongoing since 2012, aim to change this and liberalise trade in services in areas such as banking, medicine and transport. a broad consensus on this issue is necessary because highly developed non-european countries make it difficult for eu service providers, including polish companies, to access their markets, while they themselves have much easier access to the eu services market. the european parliament prepared this resolution for the european commission to outline the guidelines and framework within which it should move in the negotiations. the most important issue we have to raise is the need to ensure that our companies and the representatives of the professions have equal access to the markets of the countries involved in the negotiations. when we agree to liberalise trade in services, we must be sure that the rules in force will benefit us as much as our partners. this report clearly sets out our interests, including the specific nature of the public services that should be excluded from the scope of this contract. i voted to accept it.
madam president! after the discussion, we received a document on the new equality strategy, which is based on the european union's characteristic egotistical self-confidence. the document is based on the belief that women's rights and the social status of women in europe have been improving for 20 years. but what is the context of this? the undermining of marriage and its permanence, the weakening of the authority of the mother and father in the family, and abortionism, which is usually promoted by well-paid, relatively young men. does all this build a woman's social status? i think we should be thinking not so much about how to go forward, but rather how to turn back, because to ensure europe's life, we really have to turn back from this road to perdition.
in writing. ‒ the new strategy on gender equality for the period after 2015 presented by the european commission is an example of modern thinking on the implementation of ambitious policies, focused on clear, achievable goals and concrete methods, free from abstract postulates. the strategy rightly recognises that gender equality requires the further integration of women into the labour market through the provision of care services for adults and children and the promotion of a more balanced division of responsibilities. greater participation of women in the labour market based on the principles of equal pay for equal work and fair promotion is the best recipe against women's poverty, the pension gap and the opportunity to fully exploit talents in the economy. the path to full equality between women and men does not, however, lead through the labour market alone, but is based above all on ensuring that women's fundamental human rights are respected. the anti-violence policy presented in the commission document is rightly based on the methods proposed in the istanbul convention and the obligation to ratify that document by the european union. i call on the commission to implement the actions proposed in the strategy systematically and effectively and to evaluate conscientiously the progressive change that is bringing us closer to the goal of equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of a new strategy on gender equality and women's rights after 2015 is necessary to achieve the eu's objectives in this area. this strategy requires a very comprehensive approach and a priority approach to violence against women and to all issues related to discrimination against different groups of women in the professional, economic, social and political spheres. equal access to quality education, irrespective of gender, national, social, cultural or religious origin, is essential to ensure full participation in socio-economic life, to improve its quality and to prevent inequalities from arising. in this context, it is also necessary to prevent early school leaving, which can lead to social exclusion and marginalisation. another issue is access to lifelong vocational education and training for women. women are more likely to be interrupted in their working lives for a variety of reasons. they should therefore be enabled and encouraged to participate in vocational education and training adapted to their needs, so that they can acquire new skills that will facilitate their return to work. gender equality education is non-discriminatory education that aims at personal, social and economic development in a spirit of tolerance, partnership, dialogue and responsibility for life in society.
in writing. ‒ the issue of equality of people before the law and with each other is one of the most important civilizational challenges facing humanity. the european union also has a leading role to play in achieving this objective. the actual implementation of this principle is necessary for the further development of society and should be applied not only in legislation but above all in everyday life. unfortunately, the commission's previous strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015 did not achieve its intended objective, as it did not contribute sufficiently to ensuring gender equality in the eu. in june 2015, the european parliament therefore called for a new strategy in this area, which should give fresh impetus to the issue of equality and lead to concrete action. however, it is first necessary to identify the reasons for the lack of implementation of existing legislation in the member states in order to ensure that new legislative proposals in the area of gender equality are effectively implemented. given the importance of gender equality, i have decided to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 3 december 2015, the commission published a commission staff working document entitled 'strategic commitment to gender equality 2016-2019' (post-2015 strategy). the strategy takes women's rights in a feminist perspective, including by promoting access to reproductive and sexual rights (abortion), recommending 40% parity on company boards and calling for the ratification of the istanbul convention. the publication of the strategy in the form of a working document rather than a communication and the reduction of its time horizon was opposed by meps from the ppe, s&d, alde, verts/ale and gue/ngl groups in the femm committee. they believe that this undermines the importance of eu policy strategies on this issue. against this background, a draft resolution was tabled expressing regret at the lack of progress in improving women's rights over the past 10 years and calling on the commission to adopt a new strategy for 2016-2020 in the form of a communication. i think that's an irrational assumption. the union's legal and political decisions must take account of different cultural contexts and respect the principle of subsidiarity. the focus should be on the implementation and evaluation of existing gender equality law before new policy tools are introduced. the proposed course of action aims to consolidate ideological solutions in eu law. i voted against that.
madam president! fellow workers! i think that the minister representing the dutch presidency has expressed in very few words what should happen in the relations between the european union and kosovo. it is about supporting reforms and at the same time expecting reforms that bring the kosovo society closer to european union standards. i would prefer, to be honest, that the report were more sparing in its content, but focused on the most important issues: building democratic state structures, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, the fight against terrorism. there's too much ideological overtones in this report. less is better, but more clearly and unambiguously. like my colleague, mr dzhambazki, i would be very reluctant to rush visa liberalization.
i hope that the government of national unity will be established immediately. it is essential for the safety of the population, absorption of aid, the dismantling of daesh and its associated smuggling mafias, control of mining installations. i support eubam libya, i support eu navfor med sophia, the efforts of the high representative and the entire international community.
for the past four years, europe has been watching with concern and anxiety the events in libya. this has implications for european affairs, whether it's oil, the threat of terrorism, or the wave of refugees. libya now has two parliaments, although it was only a short time away from forming a government of national unity. the agreement is facilitated by the un in cooperation with the european union. i think that is a good configuration, and one that our group of european conservatives and reformists also supports. this configuration must be maintained, especially in order to avoid the accidental creation of a third by combining and reconciling two conflicting centres, thereby involuntarily strengthening the jihadists of the islamic state. the latter are also persecuting and killing christians en masse in libya. we must do everything we can to stop them.
in writing. since the overthrow of the dictatorship of muammar gaddafi in 2011, libya has been facing political turmoil and a wave of violence. in mid-2014, the country was divided into two separately administered areas. the war has forced the displacement of 435,000 people, and the collapse of the justice system has helped the spread of extremist groups like isis. the civilian population is being bombarded, and militias are using antipersonnel mines and cluster munitions. as a result, tens of thousands of people are fleeing across the dangerous sea route from libya to europe. humanitarian organisations are having serious difficulties in reaching those in need, and food shortages, water and electricity supply interruptions, and limited access to health care are commonplace. i call on the commission to continue to support the un efforts to achieve a political settlement in libya, despite the rejection by the libyan parliament of the newly formed government of national unity and the political settlement between the rival authorities. the eu should also ensure free access to humanitarian aid and put in place mechanisms such as the trust fund for africa, which will allow for a rapid and flexible response to crises, including the current one on immigration.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i have been listening with great interest to your views on this very important topic, and i think it has been very valuable input to the process of finding an adequate solution that would allow the european union to sign the uncitral convention on transparency and treaty-based investor state arbitration. i said in the beginning, immediately upon starting, that the answer is ‘yes, yes, yes’. i understand that the conclusion from you is – and i support that – ‘do, do, do’. so i can only prove that once it happens, and that is for you to judge. when i listen to what most members have said, there seems to be no difference of opinion. as i have said, transparency is key for our presidency. it fits into our priorities on focusing on the essentials and creating simple and more reliable legislation. i mentioned the council conclusions last year. let me stress that the presidency is committed to making progress on this very important file. it is among the priority issues on which we would like to advance discussions during the next six months. we are all ready. the question was there in the bilateral contact with the delegations concerned, and they will continue to iron out the remaining differences. there was a question: why have we not signed the mauritius convention yet? first of all, we are 100% in favour of the transparency rules in the mauritius convention. there is a difference of opinion – it was also mentioned by you, i think, from the socialist group – on whether a member state needs prior authorisation from the commission to sign. we have decided to wait with our signature until the moment that this issue is resolved. but i must admit that we are getting pretty restless. my minister for trade is also getting very impatient, because we want this transparency. we therefore find the current deadlock in the council regrettable. that was my second ‘yes’ to mr lange. it reflects badly on the image of the european union on all these points. we also hope that the conclusion of the court of justice on the issue of the ‘mixed nature’ is quickly resolved. we are looking forward to receiving the opinion of the court of justice of the european union in relation to the division of competence between the union and the member states under the eu-singapore fda. we are hopeful that this will come quickly. against this background, i am hopeful that we will be able to find a solution within the council on this important dossier. on the presidency side, we are certainly working very hard to make this happen.
in writing. investor-state dispute settlement (isds) is a mechanism used in international investment treaties to ensure that states' obligations to protect each other's investments are respected. there are currently over 3000 such agreements, 1400 of which are concluded by eu member states. the basic principles of commercial arbitration are very helpful in resolving disputes between an investor and a state. since these disputes often concern public policy or public finance issues, it is necessary to increase the transparency of their resolution by ensuring public access to documents. efforts to improve transparency have been ongoing since 2010. the european commission is working to ensure a high level of transparency in future eu agreements. in addition, it has helped to persuade the united nations commission on international trade law (uncitral) to establish global transparency rules and to apply these enhanced rules to the 3000 investment agreements currently in force. however, member states have not reached an agreement with the commission and have not signed the united nations convention to implement these global rules, which has a negative impact on the handling of many international disputes in which the union is the defendant and the claimant is a non-eu state.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in general, i support the introduction of transparency in investment arbitration and the appropriateness of disclosing some information about arbitration proceedings, but within reasonable and specified limits. in the case of arbitration proceedings, it is essential, first of all, that they be conducted with due regard to the interests of the state concerned. therefore, it is highly questionable that the proposed transparency rules provide for a significant increase in the scope of mandatory disclosure, while leaving out the possibility of reserving the confidentiality of important information, which is important both for the states and for investors. i would point out that the confidentiality of arbitration proceedings is recognised in the doctrine as one of the most important and valuable features of such proceedings. at the same time, the public's judgment in a dispute can result in the dispute being politicised and put under pressure, making it difficult to resolve amicably and to reach a satisfactory conclusion. i would point out that the accession of the eu to the convention entails the necessity for the member states to be bound by the energy charter treaty. energy disputes will require the parties to address sensitive information, the disclosure of which could be contrary to the state interest. in addition, the requirement to disclose, translate and publish all documents significantly increases the costs of proceedings. in my view, the issue of eu binding by the convention must be subject to a sound impact assessment and be taken without any pressure, especially in the face of such a significant expansion of the scope of information subject to disclosure.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. the mass sexual assaults that occur in european cities undermine the eu's policy of multiculturalism. it is no coincidence that on new year's eve the german police did not react and the german media remained silent. the imam of cologne said that the victims were responsible for the attacks, because they provoked the dress and perfume. in our own home, in europe, we are forced to conform to other people's rules. vice-president timmermans said that the situation in cologne was due to a lack of public order and that it had nothing to do with the immigration crisis. i would therefore like to ask how long the union will continue to put the good name of its immigration policy above the dignity and safety of women. is the commission aware of the scale of violence taking place inside and outside refugee centres? will we stop talking about putting a dam on violence against women, or will we start acting so that women in europe can actually feel safe? i'm surprised that anyone can fail to see this larger wave of violence against women and its connection to the immigration crisis.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the police. do you not think that you are using arguments in this debate which exclude the possibility that the words and terms you use to address members from the right of the political spectrum are undignified terms for a member of the european parliament? and i, on behalf of the right, do not wish that. your language is the language of hate. if you had looked carefully yesterday, you would have seen that i was sitting in the same place.
terrible things have happened in cologne, but they have revealed what is happening in many places in europe. i thought we were going to hear a serious debate, but i am really appalled by what we are hearing in this room: the humiliation of women is a common phenomenon, so nothing special happened in cologne. women often hide when they are harmed, so police cover-ups in germany - but not only in germany - are also not uncommon. actually, there are general issues, but the one we should be addressing doesn't deserve any particular debate. i have a specific question for the european commission. does the european commission condemn the police's withholding of information on crimes, on the perpetrators of crimes? does the european commission condemn politically motivated cover-ups as a violation of the values defined in article 2 of the treaty on european union or not? and i'm asking for a specific answer.
in writing. violence against women is a global scourge, which takes different, sometimes drastic forms and is justified in different ways. these include the belief that everything that happens in the family is a private matter, or that religious traditions cannot be opposed, even if they prescribe physical and psychological punishment for women who break the rules (honour killings). cultural differences mean that the same behaviour can be understood and judged differently. to avoid the trap of relativism in relation to violence, the process of signing and ratifying the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women was launched in 2011, which explicitly states that neither tradition nor religion can be used to justify violence. almost all eu countries have signed the convention, and several have ratified it. in an age of increasing cultural diversity in europe, the document takes on new meaning and becomes a direct tool to help resolve conflicts of values that can affect the assessment of events, such as sexual assaults on women, depending on the ethnic origin or religion of the offender or victim. the convention recalls that while cultural differences may give rise to misinterpretations of women's behaviour, this cannot be an excuse for the harm suffered by the victims, and that prevention of violence lies in educating perpetrators about women's rights, not in educating women about the permissible length of skirts.
on behalf of the ecr group. the european union has set itself the goal of sustainable development. this is one of the conditions for the smoothing of internal differences and for effective competition on the global market. therefore, more and more funds should go to the poorest regions. often, local authorities have difficulty spending the funds already allocated or wonder whether they should apply for them at all. the barrier is not so much the own contribution as the need to add vat. therefore, for projects co-financed by the european funds in the period 2014-2020, vat should constitute the eligible cost of the project. the corresponding regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 2013 should therefore be amended. in my region, lublin, local authorities have long called for this to be introduced and for more flexibility to be given to the use of funds, for example, for research and development by companies, which would give an impetus to deeper cooperation between business and science.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: local and regional authorities, which are responsible for 70% of public investment, are undoubtedly the key players in the structural funds. their role and involvement in shaping and implementing eu strategies is undoubtedly growing, but we must ensure that this takes the form of a real partnership, rather than a mere mechanical fulfilment by member states of their obligations under the regulations. i also see the potential to use their knowledge and experience in the european fund for strategic investments, for example by involving them in the european investment advisory hub. i believe that only genuine cooperation between local government, the member states and the commission, based on mutual trust, will make cohesion policy more effective and bring long-term benefits to the eu economy.
the author. two years ago, a multinational group of nato parliamentary assembly members travelled to kiev to hold a meeting of the verkhovna rada to discuss ukraine's security. it included federica mogherini. yanukovych was president at the time, the pacification of the maidan was supposed to happen in a few days, and the annexation of crimea in a few weeks. i've been circling maidan at night, climbing barricades, looking at the faces of berkut, bowing my head at the places where snipers have hit their first victims, talking to ordinary people. i have no doubt that the will of these ordinary people has determined the changes in ukraine and is leading this country towards change despite many difficulties. we owe them solidarity. i remind you of the policy of not recognizing the annexation of crimea. putin has a knack for running operational combinations designed to undermine our solidarity. to give in to these operations would be a sign of great weakness on our part, and so i thank all my colleagues for taking up this subject. i call for a resolution.
it is good that the voice of the crimean tatars is being heard here today in strasbourg. this small nation, its situation is the most vivid illustration of what the consequences of russia's annexation of crimea are. it's just a pity we don't talk about what's important to us. we had a debate yesterday before the next european council. in the statement of the president of the european commission, we did not hear anything at all about the annexation of crimea, we did not hear anything at all about the situation in eastern ukraine, which is linked to the expiry of the minsk agreements, with the serious threat of a resumption of aggressive actions by russia, by pro-russian forces. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard virtually nothing about the construction of nord stream 2. the construction of nord stream 2 is turning sanctions against russia into a farce. let's respond accordingly. let us show that the actions taken against international peace and security are indeed provoking our response in our own interests and let us be consistent.
in writing. russia is a permanent member of the un security council and a member of the g8, the world's richest industrial nations. the country has ratified many international human rights treaties, including the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention on the rights of the child, the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. however, the current situation on the crimean peninsula is far from stable. according to the un high commissioner for human rights, the violation of the rights of crimean tatars is becoming more serious. tatars are becoming victims of violence, the so-called self-defense of crimea with total inaction on the part of the local militia there are increasingly frequent cases of brutal beatings of tatars. the violation of the fundamental rights of indigenous diaspora residents by local authorities in order to intimidate their members is becoming common. in addition, the federal security service of the russian federation is conducting a mass search of the homes of members of the tatar diaspora on suspicion of possession of weapons and explosives. members of the tatar diaspora are also forced to accept russian citizenship under threat of expropriation. the situation of the tatar diaspora is further aggravated by the fact that the media, such as water and electricity, are provided by ukrainians, which could change in the event of annexation. the tatars thus became hostages of the ukrainian-russian conflict. one of the many solutions to the situation is the creation of a forum that would consist of representatives of the visegrad group countries and the baltic countries, which are concerned about the violation of human rights in crimea for geopolitical reasons.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: china is in trouble: economic growth is at its slowest in 25 years, a democratic candidate has won the election in taiwan and has vowed to curb china's influence on the island, and in hong kong, book publishers are mysteriously disappearing. the disappearance of the booksellers is marked by kidnappings, as their publications were critical of the authorities in beijing. the case of their disappearance has shaken hong kong's seven million people, with thousands taking to the streets in january to protest against political kidnappings. the future of hong kong's freedom is at stake. concerns have been raised about whether beijing intends to maintain hong kong's autonomous status, which enjoys freedoms under the accepted one-country, two-systems principle. the european parliament resolution expresses serious concern about the situation but calls on the authorities of mainland china and hong kong to clarify the matter as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! the year 2015 was undoubtedly a watershed year for eu-serbia relations. finally, after almost three years, accession talks were opened with the country. however, the positive decision to open the negotiating chapters is not so much due to belgrade's significant progress in domestic reforms as it is due to serbia's constructive policy towards its neighbours, primarily kosovo, and the serbian government's response to the immigration crisis. i also supported this report because it is clear that the decisions taken in belgrade have saved us from an even greater humanitarian disaster. however, as the report makes very clear, the country is still experiencing major problems in complying with eu requirements in the area of justice and home affairs. the negotiations on these chapters are just beginning, but it is not easy to imagine that they will be easy. another problem, which is somewhat overlooked, is the difficult economic situation in that country. a lot of migrants coming to germany, sweden or norway have serbian citizenship. this shows that poverty in this country can trigger waves of migration to the union. it is therefore necessary to focus on improving the economic situation in serbia.
in writing. ‒ the report presented presents the progress made by serbia in a generally positive light. the reform of public administration is underway, but the administration has yet to be depoliticized. the same goes for the judicial system. corruption continues to be rampant, but efforts to combat it have not yet produced measurable results. as regards the economic criteria, serbia has made progress in developing a functioning market economy. the unemployment rate has fallen below 20%. however, the private sector is still underdeveloped. the report called on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with eu policies, including its policy towards russia. on democracy, the report called for greater stakeholder consultation on parliamentary procedures, improved parliamentary scrutiny of the legislature and the de-politicisation of public administration. the report also stressed that the autonomy of vojvodina should not be weakened and that the situation of minorities, in particular the roma, should be improved. i support serbia's efforts to integrate with the eu and with this in mind i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ serbia is an important partner for the eu in the region, and therefore the current situation in the context of the accession negotiations and ongoing cooperation on issues such as the migration crisis are important. serbia has made important progress in recent times, contributing further to the deepening of the positive dimension of relations with the union. it is necessary to continue to strive to meet the rule of law criteria and to ensure adequate protection of minority rights. it is appropriate to make and implement new commitments in this respect, as this approach at the current stage of the negotiations will help to avoid complications and additional requirements at later stages. the reforms are not only designed to meet the formal requirements of the eu for the candidate countries, but also bring tangible benefits to society and the economy. the efforts to implement the principles of democracy, which are manifested in the active participation of citizens and the presence of a constructive opposition, as well as in the freedom of the media, which are an integral part of democracy, are particularly noteworthy. in the case of serbia, it is also worth mentioning its role in stabilising and developing the region. for this reason, the normalisation of the situation in serbia and a constructive dialogue with kosovo provide the basis for developing favourable and rational economic and political strategies for the neighbouring countries, which are close neighbours and partners of the eu.
mr. chairman, please! the complexity of the situation in kosovo must be emphasised first of all when assessing the situation in the past year. on the one hand, an agreement was reached with belgrade on the issue of municipalities inhabited by the serbian community, a civil rights ombudsman was appointed, laws were adopted to improve the judiciary, but at the same time the country became an example of numerous pathologies and a source of problems for the union. the opposition's blocking of the work of the kosovo assembly shows the social disagreement over the agreement with serbia. the mission, which was supposed to help the administration adapt to european rule of law standards, turned out to be corrupt and linked to kosovar criminals. there is still corruption in the police and public administration and a virtually non-existent economy. for years, experts have pointed out that kosovo is a center for human trafficking, drug and arms smuggling, and a source of recruits for islamic radicals fighting in syria and libya. and for these reasons, the union cannot afford to leave kosovo to itself. i supported the resolution because the european union must do everything possible to help this country out of the structural crisis it has been in since the beginning of its existence. the union cannot allow another failed state controlled by organised crime groups to appear on its borders.
in writing. ‒ in october 2015, the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo was signed, paving the way for kosovo's integration into the community and providing a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, allowing for cooperation with the eu in a wide range of areas. the european union has repeatedly reaffirmed its willingness to support the economic and political development of kosovo within a clearly defined european perspective. however, the process of integration requires addressing many pressing issues such as human rights violations, intolerance, corruption, organised crime, the problem of civil service and public administration, high unemployment especially among women and young people, discrimination, inadequate infrastructure, etc. there is also no doubt that the integration process is somewhat slowed down by the non-recognition of kosovo by five eu member states. recognition of kosovo would certainly help to strengthen stability in the region, facilitate further normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo and enhance the credibility of the union's external policy. the last year can certainly be considered a milestone in terms of the rapprochement of relations between kosovo and the union, given the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement. however, much still needs to be done on both sides. the european parliament's report properly identifies the problems, challenges and recommendations for the future, which is why i decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the change of regime since the fall of the regime in 2011 is marked by a breakdown in the rule of law and widespread violence. the resulting power vacuum and instability has seen many different military units take control of different parts of the territory, with two warring governments and separate parliaments in tripoli and tobruk, with only the tobruk authorities recognised by the international community. in recent months, international efforts to end the violence and political impasse have intensified, resulting in, inter alia, the signing of the libyan political agreement on 17 december 2015, paving the way for the establishment of the institution of the presidential council. the international community is hoping that the new government will stabilize the situation in the country and allow it to deal with the growing threat from isis (da'esh), which is seeking to fill the power vacuum. moreover, libya has become the country with the highest number of migrants fleeing across the mediterranean to eu countries, and where isis (da'esh) has gained another foothold for its organisation, taking advantage of the growing violence and political turmoil - threatening security in the region on an ever-widening scale. given the internal situation in libya and the risks of destabilisation of the country for the libyan people, i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ according to the resolution, all islands have an accessibility rate that is lower than the european average, even taking into account maritime transport. human capital is a major problem for islands, especially mediterranean islands: education is particularly low even on islands with high gdps and universities. insularity should therefore be recognised as a natural characteristic which negatively affects, directly and indirectly, the attractiveness of islands by creating obstacles to their sustainability performance. this creates for these territories a more targeted and efficient use of existing funds as well as additional resources. furthermore, i believe that the proportion of cohesion policy funds spent on isolated regions should be concentrated on the poorest eu member states rather than on strictly defined french, spanish and portuguese territories. the resolution calls, inter alia, on the commission to establish an 'eu strategic framework for islands' to bring together instruments that can have a significant territorial impact and on member states and regional and local authorities to play an important role in island development strategies based on a vertical approach covering all levels of government, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in order to guarantee the sustainable development of islands in the eu. given the seriousness of the problems, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution underlines the key role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategy, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to local communities. it is very important to note that the close links between these authorities and citizens and the diversity of governments at local and regional level are an asset for the eu. parliament supports synergies and complementarities between the european structural and investment funds and other eu programmes, where local and regional authorities can play a useful role in achieving cohesion policy objectives. at the same time, the resolution stresses that improving the administrative capacity and addressing the structural weaknesses of local and regional authorities are essential for the programming and implementation phases of operational programmes and for achieving a higher absorption rate of european structural and investment funds. calls on the commission, therefore, to ensure that local and regional authorities and their administrations and institutions are supported in capacity building, enabling them to play a significant role in cohesion policy, especially in the case of delegation of executive tasks to lower levels of administration, especially to municipal authorities; i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ poland is the best example of how european funds can change a country in a dozen years. the most important actors in this activity, both in poland and in other eu countries, are local government units. it is the regional authorities that are most often responsible for allocating and managing the huge amounts of funds, for example through regional operational programmes, and the successful implementation of these tasks often determines a significant leap forward for many regions. one of the most important beneficiaries of european funds is the 'small homeland', the municipalities. the activities carried out by municipal units, such as investments in road, water and sewerage infrastructure, municipal services, education and cultural and tourist offerings, are the most easily perceived and felt by residents, as they serve the whole community. the role of local authorities in informing and mediating the acquisition of european funds by natural and legal persons should not be forgotten either, which is why, in supporting local authorities in their activities, i voted in favour of the adoption of a document on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities in the eu member states play a very important role, which is recognised not only in national but also in european legislation, as evidenced by the active involvement of these authorities in the discussions on the preparation and implementation of operational programmes. the knowledge of local and regional authorities is particularly important for shaping future policies, as they are the closest to citizens and communities, the ones who best understand their needs and are able to support work at european level by exchanging views and proposing concrete solutions in the context of job creation, healthcare, the environment, energy and transport. the development of urban-rural links will bring further benefits to eu citizens, as this approach allows both cities and rural areas to exploit their full potential through the mutual provision of specific services. the eu should also seek to make the most of the opportunities for international cooperation within and outside the eu. cross-border links and cooperation between border regions can serve many social and economic purposes, while enhancing the very important dimension of european territorial cooperation. it is also in this context that the shape of the european structural and investment funds should be discussed and decided, so that they are well-suited to the needs and opportunities of the eu's regions, cities and villages.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy is the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and aims to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between eu member states and their regions. the eu's adoption of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 provided an opportunity to create a coherent framework for the five european structural and investment funds for the first time. it is thanks to them that the role of local and regional authorities in the formulation and implementation of eu strategies has been significantly enhanced. however, further action is needed to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities. the european parliament's report points, inter alia, to the need to improve administrative capacity and address structural weaknesses. in addition, community-led local development should be promoted, where local authorities are not just managers but become partners in the action. multi-level governance supports the eu's core policy objectives of economic growth, social progress and sustainable development, and strengthens the democratic dimension of the union and enhances the effectiveness of its policies. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution because the eu's cohesion policy is the eu's most important investment instrument. from my experience as minister of culture from 2007 to 2014, i can indeed confirm that the european structural and investment funds are a very important instrument with important benefits. i would like to stress that the success of the projects implemented depends to a large extent on good cooperation between government institutions and local authorities and communities. the role of local authorities, their competences and appropriate training are crucial in the process of using structural funds effectively. in the cultural sector, 100% of the investment appropriations were used in poland. that's what a very good team does.
in writing. ‒ effective regional and local government is the key to good management and spending of european funds. it is at this level that the needs of local communities can best be identified and the planned investments integrated into the overall development strategy of the country. the availability of many european funds to help redress regional disparities, modernise rural areas and improve skills is an undeniable asset of our membership. however, to make the most of this opportunity, it is necessary to identify the investment needs of each region. the role of local and regional authorities should be strengthened in this process, as they are the ones who make the most important decisions every day. it is in the regional or local authorities that the first line of defence is to be found in the face of major problems such as inefficient communications, natural disasters or the preparation of the conditions for investment that creates new jobs. of course, it is not enough to involve the local council or the regional council in the decision-making process. it is necessary to prepare local officials and to create mechanisms for public consultation to ensure that theory is brought into line with practice. this approach will not only ensure that european funds go where they are needed most, but also allow local businesses to be more involved in the implementation of these investments. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the polish local authorities deserve to have a say in a matter of such importance to them.
in writing. ‒ whereas widespread and systematic violations of human rights continue, in particular against minorities such as yazidis, christians, turkmen, shiites, shabaks, sabean mandeans, jarsani and kurds, and whereas daesh's violence is not limited to individuals but extends to the destruction of religious sites and archaeological sites; the resolution calls on all governments and public authorities, including the eu (in particular the council and the eeas) and its member states, the united nations, the un secretary-general, the un special representatives and special rapporteurs, the un high commissioner for human rights and all other international bodies and institutions, together with their leaders and representatives, to call the atrocities committed by the so-called isis/daesh against other peoples and religions and any other indigenous religious minorities 'crimes against humanity and the environment'. the objective of isis/da'esh is to deliberately seek the total physical and cultural elimination of all other ethnic and religious minorities from the territories under its control. in view of the call for action to defend fundamental human rights, and in particular the most important of these - the right to life - i supported the resolution.
in writing. - i voted for the bill on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis. as is well known, under international law every human being has the right to live according to his conscience and to freedom of religion, to change his religious beliefs. it is clear that systematic and widespread attacks against the civilian population, violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, in particular those committed on religious or ethnic grounds, pose a global and irreversible threat to international order. i agree with the view that the perpetration of acts of murder against religious and ethnic minorities has in consequence contributed to mass migration and internal displacement. this is also why i support the position of the united nations high commissioner for refugees on the implementation of measures such as: a humanitarian programme for the reception of refugees, the introduction of simplified procedures for family reunification or more flexible visa rules. however, to have a positive impact, a cooperation plan needs to be developed and implemented by eu units with the participation of widely recognised ethnic and religious minority leaders.
in writing. ‒ the criminal activities of the so-called islamic state undoubtedly bear the hallmarks of genocide. even if not all legal definitions are exhausted in this case, it is difficult to name another systematic act of violence, kidnapping, murder and execution of christians in isis-controlled areas of syria and iraq. this is a deliberate act by a brutal and ruthless terrorist organization like isis, aiming at the physical extermination of religious minorities in the area. this crime against humanity cannot be silenced and ignored by the international community. the complete isolation of isis and the denial of any support to the authorities of this criminal regime must be our overriding objective. we must oppose by all possible means - political, economic and military - the extermination of christians, who are paying the highest price for our passivity and the geopolitical play of regional powers. coordinated efforts are needed to prevent isis from recruiting new fighters and to punish those who choose to join the ranks of this terrorist organisation. we must not only enforce international law, including un security council resolution 2253 (2015), but also build a coalition ready to take further, real action to eliminate this 'political cancer'. peace in syria today seems extremely distant, but without it, the lives of thousands of christians will not be saved. i voted for this text.
mr. chairman, please! today we are talking about the macro-regional strategy and the european ten-t network for the danube-adriatic macro-region. i fully support the calls of my colleagues to develop this rail infrastructure in the region as soon as possible. however, at the end of the debate i wanted to ask the commissioner what priority the commission will give to inland transport within the european ten-t network, and i am thinking in particular of the danube-odra-lab inland waterway.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mahatma gandhi said that the progress of a civilization and its moral progress can be judged by how it treats its animals. the debate today shows that the protection of animals is at the heart of our european civilization, especially the animals closest to man, the domesticated ones, whose survival depends on man. dogs and cats have a special place in our european civilization and culture as animals whose relationship to man is not primarily based on their economic utility but on a special attachment to man, a special friendship with man. many of these animals live in our homes, but many of them experience the tragedy of abandonment. we have a problem in europe of homelessness of animals, especially dogs, who often suffer unfortunately from cruel treatment. animals suffer, but so do the people who witness the suffering. i have to say this recently, also because the commissioner is from romania. we have a problem with the dramatic situation in romania. i'm being approached by citizens of this country, people of good will who are moved by the plight of animals. the country has a problem of very brutal treatment of stray dogs, which is the subject of many complaints from people who see this brutality as not only contrary to animal welfare principles but also contrary to the protection of human rights. i hope and appeal to the romanian authorities - especially as chair of the european parliament's animal protection intergroup of over 100 meps - to put an end to this brutality, which is not in keeping with civilized european principles. the image of a beautiful country and the brave romanian people is being lost. improving the welfare of homeless animals is an important challenge for us, not just for animal welfare, but for human welfare as well, because a sensitive person cannot feel happy if they see animals suffering around them. registration and identification is a way to increase the responsibility of owners and to prevent abandonment of animals, it is a way to control the fate of these animals. there are many identification systems in the member states, but they are not enough, and we should therefore start thinking about an eu identification system. ladies and gentlemen! the protection of animals is a european value under article 13 of the treaty and we should keep this in mind. and as far as companion animals such as dogs and cats are concerned, their protection should be a european task, with the possibility of using the european union budget for this purpose. such measures should be provided for, in particular, for programmes for the humane reduction of the population of stray animals, for sterilisation, adoption, shelters and an identification system. we should think about this when we work on the future budget of the union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. it is very surprising to me that in the 21st century, in the age of digitalisation, when we are constantly fighting for a digital europe and for progress in this matter, you say that registering pets in a single system is something beyond our capabilities. a little more faith it's not that complicated, nor that difficult, and i agree completely with our colleague mrs. zomer that it's much cheaper than, firstly, 21 different systems, secondly, these 21 systems cause macabre abuses and one element that nobody mentioned, sentimental too, because these animals die. and just one last thing, why are you mixing this organizational problem with the colossal, dramatic and political issue of refugees? please don't do this.
when we talk about pets, dogs and cats, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of excitement about this everywhere - in our member states and in this house. i would like to see the subject you have mentioned so often, the suffering of animals and the inadequate conditions in which they are kept, extended to farm animals. we think about it much less often, and it's less emotional, and it's more interesting to see how much money we can make. and of course the responsibility for how animals should be registered, for punishing crime, is on the member states, but we need a common system, as in many other areas, we also need harmonisation. and i would like to ask the commissioner to use the ngos, which in many of our countries have excellent insight into this issue, a lot of good ideas, which cooperate at european level with each other and which would certainly be a great partner for the european commission in solving this problem.
mr donald tusk said that he was concerned about the free movement of people in europe; he forgot that the united kingdom is not in schengen and we are living with that. as for refugees, england even gave refuge to karl max, but did not pay him any benefits. we need schengen, we need the european economic area, but we don't need a bunch of politicians and bureaucrats deciding about gays in kyrgyzstan and gorillas in congo. if the british people heard this debate, 90% would vote for brexit. so i hope that the united kingdom will leave the european union, return to the european free trade association, and the czech republic, poland, slovakia, hungary and other freedom-loving countries will follow. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
please could you repeat the second part of your question? what would i do if what?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i would declare the end of the european union if i could.
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you for what you said about the threat that russia poses to europe, especially to the part where our countries are located. but don't you see that it's not really the people who want to discuss the european union, its state and crisis, who are guilty of selfishness, but the governments and big business groups who tolerate projects like nord stream 2, which compromise the interests of your country and my country? so let us not blame the nations and public opinion, but let us work together to mobilize governments to resign . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. on 18 and 19 february 2016, the european council adopted a strategic programme which set out the long-term priorities for the eu's actions and work. the main topics were the uk's status in the eu and the migration and refugee crisis. after hours of negotiations, eu leaders have reached an agreement that strengthens britain's special status in the eu. the decision taken by the 28 heads of state is legally binding and irrevocable, as david cameron has stressed. under the new arrangements, the uk will be permanently excluded from the process of progressive eu integration and immigrants from other member states will be subject to restrictions on access to the social welfare system. moreover, the united kingdom will never join the euro area and will remain outside the schengen agreement. in the context of the migration crisis, the european council decided to protect the eu's external borders, curb illegal migration and guarantee the integrity of the schengen area. the decision by nato to provide assistance in the detection, monitoring and control of illegal border crossings in the aegean sea was also welcomed. nevertheless, full and rapid implementation of the eu-turkey action plan remains a priority for halting migration flows and combating traffickers' and smugglers' networks.
in writing. at the last summit, eu leaders agreed to make concessions to the uk to prevent it from leaving the eu. commenting on the situation, the european media focused on the issue of restricting social assistance for europeans in the uk, but also in other member states. it is important to note that this is an important but not crucial issue for the future of the union. the risk of a three-speed union is a more serious problem. this is because there is a risk of the community breaking up into the following countries: (1) the euro area, (2) the united kingdom and (3) the other member states. these three 'zones' will be subject to, inter alia, different integration rules and different rights and obligations of membership. this threatens to weaken and perhaps to break up the union. this risk may also be reinforced in the future by the fact that other member states, especially those with strong eurosceptic parties, may now put forward their own demands similar to those raised by the united kingdom. that is why i am afraid that the european union has been weakened rather than strengthened by recent decisions, which threaten its good future.
madam president! the evaluation of the european semester must be linked to an assessment of the state of management of the single market. unfortunately, there is still a lot to be done in this area. ladies and gentlemen! the 21st century is characterised by, among other things, digital and technological leaps forward, widespread globalisation and international competition, changes in societal attitudes and consumer patterns, and the emergence of entirely new and previously unknown forms of economic activity. so to maintain the competition we have in the common market, the european market, but more importantly to maintain and develop the competition of the european market on the world market, we need deregulation of business conditions, strengthening of the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, including start-ups, development of innovation, including technical and technological progress, the spread of e-government, reduction of bureaucratic and financial costs of business, full implementation of european law in all member states, elimination of non-tariff barriers and protectionism in member states. in fact, we urgently need to improve the management of the single market. and that's the point of today's work.
madam president! first of all, i would ask you to clarify the question of the availability of the reports for today's debate in the languages of the members of the european parliament. for example, mr rodriguez's report on the european semester was only available in english today. as regards the european semester, i am happy to say that this is not a new subject. i have a few points to make from my point of view, and i would like to mention two of them. first, structural reforms in the member states. we regularly debate the extent to which country-specific recommendations are binding. let's be clear: recommendations are binding because they are endorsed by the heads of government themselves and very often they strike at the heart of the problem in the individual countries. the second point, which is somewhat related to the first, is that i cannot see how and why we should increase economic coordination at european union level if we are not able to coordinate the esms properly at the moment. many countries are not implementing the reforms that we've been asking them to do, so i think we should focus on what we can do to encourage governments to do reforms at the national level, especially now that the specter of another financial and economic crisis is really looming.
madam president! i agree that the principles of social policy should be taken into account in the management of the economic policy of the european union. but how far can the union go in coordinating social policy? the european union is meant to help set the direction, not to abuse its role by encroaching on the powers of the member states. the member states should be in charge of their own social policy, and it is therefore difficult to agree with certain provisions in mrs ribeiro's report, such as the one which says that the european social fund should allocate 20% of its funds to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the proposal that the european commission should be empowered to monitor and control employment contracts concluded in individual member states cannot be accepted either. such regulations are too much an intrusion into the powers of the union states. it is the governments of the member states that know best how to solve the social problems of their countries, and it is up to the voters of that country, the people, to decide what government, what position on social issues they want to choose.
madam president! fellow workers! i am a strong supporter of the flexible use of this instrument, with respect for the states and their responsibilities, without centralism - mr krasnodębski spoke of this a moment ago - but i would like to draw attention to an issue which, although formally not part of our debate, has a great impact on european solidarity, on the economic and budgetary balance in the individual countries and on the efforts made for europe. that's defense spending. only five european countries (poland, france, the united kingdom, estonia and greece) spend 2% of gdp on defence. the rest of the world doesn't. the scale of these burdens must be taken into account by the european commission, because they have a powerful impact on the budgetary commitments of these countries, and these are the costs of security for all europeans. i strongly encourage you to consider it.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the debate today on the coordination of economic policy in the european union is very important because i have the impression that we are not all entirely satisfied with the results of this economic policy. over the past ten years, between 2005 and 2014, gross domestic product in the european union as a whole has grown by only 7.5% and in the euro area by only 5%. these are not results that satisfy our societies. the social disappointment is so great that all those who are looking for blame are also pointing the finger at brussels, even though it is the member states that have the biggest share and the greatest responsibility for the economic performance of individual countries. i would like to call on the european commission to increase its activity, its determination and its influence on the member states so that the potential growth rate in the european union is significantly increased. we've talked a lot about investing here, but it's not just about investing. employment and technological progress are also important. i therefore call for the country-specific recommendations to be drawn up to pay even more attention to labour market reform and to increase the labour force participation rate, as well as to improve innovation and accelerate technological progress, without which europe will lose its distance from the rest of the world.
madam president! member states continue to have high levels of youth unemployment: the available data clearly show that the implementation of the youth guarantee is very poor. we should put more emphasis on creating employment opportunities for young people, largely through entrepreneurship education. then we won't need any guarantees. we are also concerned about the increase in the number of people classified as working poor. in addition, in many countries, there is an abuse of non-standard forms of employment. i would like to emphasise that ensuring flexibility in employment is essential for the proper functioning of both european companies and workers. this does not change the fact that every worker, regardless of the form of employment, should be covered by the social security system. in this context, it seems a good move to introduce three new employment indicators into the annual growth analysis and to place greater emphasis on labour and social policy. it is important that we do not find ourselves in a situation where, despite improving macroeconomic indicators, the lives of ordinary people are getting worse. i congratulate sofia ribeiro on the very good work she has done on this report.
mr. chairman, please! the reform of the eures network is a positive sign and gives hope for improving the process of exchanging information between countries on the needs of local markets and available jobs and jobseekers. i particularly welcome the changes to provide more personalised career and recruitment advice, practical help in finding and hiring workers, and information to workers and employers on social security, taxation and relevant legislation in individual member states. the commission's and the member states' duty to promote and popularise the network effectively among employers and employees is also important. the eures network will never be effective unless the public and private employment services are fully involved in its operation. it is hoped that initiatives such as eures will at least partially offset the negative effects of recent actions that have created new barriers to the free movement of european union workers. heinz, thank you and the counter-inspectors for a great job.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 february 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am pleased that the tripartite talks have resulted in an interinstitutional agreement on the eures instrument. i believe that the new directive, which re-establishes this instrument if it is implemented efficiently in the member states will help to give a new impetus to interregional cooperation in the field of recruitment. the european union has been struggling for some years not only with unemployment but also with the problem of unfilled vacancies in certain sectors of the economy. the european network of employment services in a new, strengthened form has the potential to facilitate the recruitment of workers from different member states. the network will be made up of both public employment services and social partners, who will be subject to the same minimum criteria. i think it's a good basis for cooperation. i am also pleased that the issues of mobility of workers in crossborder areas have been identified and clarified. in fact, this is a group of workers who have slightly different problems, and therefore require special attention and often individual solutions. i therefore think that the creation of separate crossborder partnerships within eures is a good solution.
in writing. i have repeatedly called for the creation of a european information bank on traineeships and placements. i therefore strongly support the inclusion of apprenticeship and traineeship offers in the eures network. in this context, i stress the need to provide comprehensive information to jobseekers or trainees on the terms and conditions of employment and the benefits associated with potential work. in order to be a useful and effective tool for job search and traineeship, eures needs to be accessible to the widest possible audience. therefore, it is important to ensure that it is user-friendly and promoted in the media. it is also important to monitor the functioning of this tool so that any shortcomings can be corrected on an ongoing basis. i also propose new initiatives to make the eures portal a comprehensive information point on employment and vocational skills. the eures portal should provide information on, inter alia, language courses, conditions for the recognition of academic and professional qualifications, and accommodation options in the country concerned.
in writing. the right to free movement of workers already appeared in the 1957 treaty of rome. it is also guaranteed in article 39 of the treaty establishing the european community, in its consolidated version. it is estimated that more than 7 million european citizens lived and worked in another member state in 2013, of which 78% were in employment and 68% were in employment. however, due to the financial crisis, the flow of labour within the union has recently decreased by one third. in addition, there is a trend towards a shortage of qualified personnel. in order to counteract the further effects of the developing trend, the committee of permanent representatives approved on 2 december 2015 the agreement reached with the european parliament on the re-establishment and reorganisation of the european network of employment services (eures). the aim in itself is to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers. in addition, removing barriers to mobility will increase access to employment throughout the eu, facilitating the creation of new jobs. moreover, this employment network will contribute to combating unemployment by helping to better match supply and demand in the labour market. eures is also expected to play an important role in providing concrete information and services to employers and cross-border workers in european border regions. i believe that the idea of a single market without major national borders is based on a high level of mutual trust and on the equivalence of regulatory systems.
the next item is the debate on: report by marielle de sarnez on behalf of the committee on international trade on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of exceptional autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia (com ((2015) 0460c8-0273/20152015/0218 ((cod)) (a8-0013/2016)) and statement by the commission: opening of negotiations on the eu-tunisia free trade agreement (2015/2791 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, madam commissioner, the ungass conference will be an opportunity to promote the european approach related to drug issues in order to tackle the demand and supply, also to fight drug-related problems. the european approach is unique, as we have managed to create coordination with 28 drug policies joined together and reinforced by action taken at eu level. this is a model with a special role for emcdda, our agency, to do risk assessments, and we should share this experience with the regional organisations. as europe, we should promote the abolition of the death penalty and the right to healthcare services for people affected by drugs. it is important to change the attitude, not to stigmatise or criminalise people dependent on drugs but promote a preventive approach and build an awareness of how dangerous all kinds of drugs are. three points: firstly, the integrated approach should be further developed, with cooperation between health, justice and law enforcement, civil society focused on assistance, treatment, education and awareness-raising. on the other hand, a more coordinated fight against organised crime should be a priority as well. secondly, we need to adjust to the new ways of drug distribution, taking into account the role of the internet. this is not only for law enforcement but also for parents and prevention organisations. and thirdly, we should understand the phenomenon of new psychoactive substances, which pose more and more of a threat. we need a proper early-warning system and the possibility to react much faster. this is why all available resources, especially related to the emcdda in europe, need to be strengthened. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think that it is important to understand that competences relating to health are in the member states’ hands, but that there are many efforts being made at the european level to coordinate and harmonise some activities. i think that we need to have a balance. promotion and cooperation is one of the most important things but, on the other hand, we need to remember that many member states will tackle their own policies in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. public health is one of the fundamental rights that make up the common good of any nation, and no government has the right to shirk its responsibility for the control of pests, especially organised pests that affect human health. people who are addicted to drugs must be helped to recover; wholesalers, distributors, all those who spread this plague must be fought, there must be a regular war on them. i hear that our main message to the rest of the world right now is to ban the death penalty for drug crimes, or should we ban the use of the military to fight the drug mafia? why don't we turn to the united states, to the east asian countries, so that the military doesn't fight the drug mafia, because some wholesaler will die? we are here to defend the people, not encourage others not to fight the evil that is striking our nations.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, first of all i would like to extend my thanks to ms o’reilly for her work. not only in 2014, but ever since she took office, her work has been exemplary. the committee on petitions’ annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman serves not only as summary, an approval of the work of the european ombudsman in any given year, but also as a reminder to us and other european institutions to be more service-minded, to be more open-minded to our citizens. living up to the highest standards of good administration in the european union needs continuous effort on our part. the ombudman’s power to open strategic investigations on her own initiative often gives us the necessary push we need. in that matter, i would like to extend my support for the ombudsman’s drive for greater transparency and progress with regard to the transparency register. the register, which has been set up jointly by the european parliament and the commission, aims to answer some profound public concerns. the fact that over 7 000 institutions have voluntarily registered, with the news circulating that in the past week another 49 have signed up, shows the willingness to address the transparency issue, which is very important. i believe that the information provided in the register to ensure and confirm a balanced representation of various stakeholders is a great push forward, and i believe this will allow us, the decision-maker, greater transparency and greater understanding of what exactly we need to do in the european institutions and the european union as a whole. thank you very much once again, madam ombudsman. thank you for your hard work.
madam president! we're debating a good report that's not only good, but also true. it's just that the information that's given is what happened and it's just been positive. i want to make it very clear that working with the ombudsman is not just a debate today. we meet with the ombudsman as the college of quaestors of the european parliament. there's going to be another meeting soon, so our cooperation is ongoing. what would i like to highlight? the register of transparency is a matter of ideas and how they are implemented. i'm very happy to be working here. the second very important factor is respect for fundamental rights. we have a report that came out literally yesterday or the day before yesterday. it shows that the situation of respect for fundamental rights is deteriorating dramatically, also in the european union, and particularly among some member states of the european union. so i would like to thank you again and say that i am very pleased to support this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today's debate is of great importance, firstly because of the importance of the subject, but also because our parliament has asked the european commission on several occasions about the state of play of the negotiations with philip morris international. the illegal trade in tobacco products, and in particular the smuggling of counterfeit cigarettes, results in a combined revenue loss of eur 10 billion per year for the european union and its member states, and the value of one european anti-smuggling programme (hercules iii) is approximately eur 100 million for the period 2014-2020. tobacco trafficking is a serious crime that contributes to the financing of other types of organised crime. it's also a public health issue, because these illegal cigarettes pose a greater health risk because no one really knows how they're made. the agreement with philip morris has therefore made a contribution to the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco, and we must therefore support the initiative, we must support the efforts of mrs georgieva to extend this agreement. the agreement was made 20 years ago, and the market and the environment for the mirroring are very different now than they were then, but it seems that such agreements are needed, and there is one more thing, and that is that this global protocol to combat trafficking will come into force 50 years after ratification, which is around 2020. if this contract expires this year, philip morris will not be required to make the so-called supplemental payments for the next few years, and the question is, is it worth it?
madam president! in taking part in this debate on the agreement on tobacco products with philip morris, i would like to draw attention to the fact that it took the commission almost two years to present to parliament an assessment of the effects of this agreement. unfortunately, this assessment is incomplete. despite this negligence, it would appear to be beneficial to renew the agreement with pmi, since it contains, inter alia, provisions allowing the transparency of the traceability of the company's tobacco supply chain and thus enabling the reduction of smuggling. it so happens that my country, poland, is neighbouring three countries: russia, belarus and ukraine, where tobacco products are three or four times cheaper and thus particularly attractive for smuggling. the existence of such agreements with the major tobacco groups, including pmi, makes it possible to reduce this smuggling and thus to reduce losses, including to the polish budget, which amount to at least pln 100 million per year, i.e. eur 25 million.
in writing. the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) expires in july 2016. this is why the european parliament has requested the commission to provide information on the details of the negotiations between the european commission and pmi. the parliament asked the commission to present an evaluation of the agreement with pmi, in which the commission would indicate the benefits of the agreement or any problems associated with it. unfortunately, the commission did not properly cooperate with parliament and did not respond to subsequent requests (including parliament's own-initiative report entitled 'annual report 2012 on the protection of the eu's financial interests' and its resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012). it is unacceptable that the only directly elected eu body should not be informed in a timely and proper manner on such an important issue. the commission, which calls for transparency, should itself follow the principle it promotes. the commission shall be responsible for publicity, transparency and the submission of information to the european parliament. we hope that the commission's presentation of the technical assessment yesterday will be the start of a proper, transparent cooperation which will enable us to achieve results that are beneficial to the european taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i am not against austria and malta joining the hague convention. i abstained because i believe that it is not the competence of the european union to impose the decision to accede to the convention on the citizens and authorities of these countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union and san marino will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents under this agreement, in line with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive and the 2014 oecd global standards. this will take place from 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. similar updates have been made to the agreements with switzerland and liechtenstein, and the agreements with andorra and monaco will also be updated. i welcome this update as the agreement has been brought into line with current eu standards and oecd global standards, without applying double standards with respect to the exchange of information. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino establishing measures relating to the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. i voted in favour of the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino. as in the case of switzerland and liechtenstein, this will avoid a situation where the taxpayer conceals capital constituting income or assets without paying taxes. the exchange of financial information of residents of each party in accordance with current requirements is an integral part of transparent relations with the european union and effective prevention of irregularities in this area.
in writing. ‒ the eu and san marino will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents in accordance with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive (dac2) and the 2014 oecd global standards. this will take place from 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. similar updates have been made to the agreements with switzerland and liechtenstein, and the agreements with andorra and monaco will also be updated. i welcome this update as the agreement has been brought into line with current standards and the oecd global standards, without applying double standards with respect to the exchange of information. the amendments include, for example, a more detailed set of data protection provisions, provisions on the exchange of information on request following the oecd model and a mechanism for the rapid adoption of amendments to the oecd global standard with the agreement of the other party to the agreement. the information to be exchanged concerns not only income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols aim to establish a common legal framework for the protection of the communities' financial interests under criminal law. abuses affecting both expenditure and revenue should be subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions, including custodial sentences, which may provide grounds for extradition. i voted in favour of the proposal because i support the position of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols aim to establish a common legal framework for the protection of the communities' financial interests under criminal law. abuses affecting both expenditure and revenue should be subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions, including custodial sentences, which may provide grounds for extradition. this convention was adopted on 26 july 1995 and entered into force on 17 october 2002. croatia acceded to this convention and the protocols thereto by virtue of the act of accession. the council should adopt a decision to set the date on which that convention should enter into force for croatia. in the light of the above, the commission recommends that the council take a decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and the protocols thereto. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ eures is a cooperation network between the european commission and the public employment services of the member states, focusing on professional mobility in the eu. the purpose of this regulation is to make the eures network a tool for jobseekers or employers by making available a pan-european pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles. the regulation also aims to strengthen the institutional and organisational basis of eures services, to improve the quality of information provided to workers and employers, to improve the exchange of information to better reflect technological change and to increase the mobility of workers, in particular in cross-border regions. the regulation also covers apprenticeship and vocational training, provided that the applicants are in an employment relationship. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment of the rules on the operation of the european job mobility networks (eures) because the current system was flawed. the collection of available jobs and cvs of unemployed persons was incomplete. the automatic matching of cvs and offers was limited and the scope of cross-border information on available offers and competences was insufficient. only 7.5 million people, or 3.1% of the working population, are employed in other member states. our aim is to tackle unemployment by better matching supply and demand in the eu labour market. i believe that the new rules will take into account the needs of young people and the specificities of crossborder regions better than before. the reformed eures portal should be 'smarter', as it will automatically search for job vacancies based on the competences listed in the cv of the jobseeker and include all job vacancies published by public employment offices in the member states throughout the eu, and importantly, access for workers is free of charge. i believe that the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality in employment, remuneration and other working conditions and the guarantee of access to the portal services for disabled persons are justified.
in writing. ‒ eures is a cooperation network between the european commission and the public employment services of the member states aimed at professional mobility in the eu. the purpose of this regulation is to make the eures network a tool for jobseekers or employers by making available a pan-european pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles. the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the institutional and organisational basis of eures services, to improve the quality of information provided to workers and employers, to improve the exchange of information to better reflect technological change and to increase the mobility of workers, in particular in cross-border regions. the regulation also covers apprenticeship and vocational training, provided that the applicants are in an employment relationship. the new eures network will include the european coordination office, the national coordination offices and eures members and partners. public employment services enjoy preferential status in the eures network and are automatically designated by the member states as eures members. the regulation opens the eures network to the various players in the market for recruitment services (public, private, service sector, social partners). organisations that are not able to carry out all the tasks will be able to become eures partners, and those that are able to carry out a wider range of services will become eures members. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ free movement of workers is one of the key conditions for the development of a more integrated eu labour market, especially in cross-border regions, allowing for greater labour mobility, thus contributing to greater diversity and finding people with the right skills for job vacancies. the recent financial and economic crisis has forced both the member states and the european union to take a number of measures to increase the employment opportunities of workers and to help employers fill vacancies better and faster. unfortunately, there is still a relatively low level of intra-eu labour mobility, which is to be countered by the creation of a european network of employment services. the platform is intended to provide the widest possible pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles at european level. it is also intended to provide opportunities for apprenticeships and traineeships. as the parliament pointed out in its report, it is necessary to ensure that the platform is easily accessible and as user-friendly as possible, while cooperating appropriately with the already existing national employment agencies. i think the european commission's initiative is right, but only if it does not in any way restrict the ability of individual member states to pursue their own employment policies.
in writing. ‒ sustainable employment growth in the member states and the reduction of the risk of unemployment is a goal that can only be fully achieved through close cooperation within the european union. the free movement of workers is one of the greatest advantages of poland's membership of the eu, but to exploit its full potential, the exchange of information on job vacancies in different member states should function much better. eures, which has been in existence since 1994, is a tool for coordinating national employment policies at european level. however, the functioning of this system requires adaptation to new conditions, including increased mobility of workers and new communication channels. the traditional structure of this network requires the complementation and inclusion not only of public employment services but also of successive partners representing the private sector and non-profit organisations. the scope of eures activities also needs to be extended, which, in addition to job-search, should include training and traineeships, which are an essential part of vocational education and training. the creation of new tools based on digital technologies that will allow employers to be matched with employees quickly and efficiently also seems to be a valid proposition. i also agree with the proposal to increase the role of this platform in the process of collecting and sharing knowledge about the recruitment process, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that require special support. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attack in sousse on 26 june 2015 has triggered a debate in the eu on the need to continue to support tunisia's political and economic transformation in a concrete and targeted way, through actions that can be effective in the short term. in this context, the european commission is proposing a temporary, unilateral and duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures. olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural product exported to the eu, and the olive oil sector is an important part of the national economy providing direct and indirect employment for over one million people, representing a fifth of employment in the entire agricultural sector. given the nature of the support tool, i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ implementation of the emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the difficult political and economic situation in tunisia has prompted the european union to take effective action to support the country in its transition. the solutions proposed by the european commission have my full support. tunisia, which is facing many difficulties, needs help that will bring short-term benefits. the european union's approval of the temporary unilateral duty-free export of olive oil from tunisia to the member states of the european union will certainly contribute to positive changes in tunisia, which relies heavily on the olive oil sector for its economy.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attack in sousse on 26 june 2015 has triggered a debate in the eu on the need to continue to support tunisia's political and economic transformation in a concrete and targeted way, through actions that can be effective in the short term. the council identified actions to be taken to support the political and economic transformation in tunisia. in this context, the european commission is proposing a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures. this quota will be available for two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the additional quantity will be opened after the current duty-free tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes has been exhausted. olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural product exported to the eu, and the olive oil sector is an important part of the national economy providing direct and indirect employment for over one million people, representing a fifth of employment in the entire agricultural sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the duty rate applicable to the imports of the product concerned from the prc. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ building a lasting and stable state requires a solid economic foundation. this economic success is the engine of the rule of law and of a modern state that effectively meets the needs of its citizens. the situation in tunisia is far from being that of a democratic state, and the recent years of internal destabilisation in that country have had a negative impact on our continent as well. as in the case of ukraine, so in the case of tunisia, we must make an effort to open our market to products which will, on the one hand, enrich the offer to european consumers and, on the other, strengthen the weak foundations of economic development of our north african partner. the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. of course, the measures taken are temporary and limited, since such action cannot cause lasting damage to european oil producers and destabilise the internal market. i believe this decision is the right one and will bring more benefits to the stability of the region than any other political or military action. given the important role of the north african states in tackling the migration crisis affecting europe, the actions taken by the european parliament and the council are fully justified.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund (gfa) helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills after they lose their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as when a large company closes down, a factory moves outside the eu or as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the request from hainaut-namur glass of belgium concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of just over eur 1 million. the total estimated number of beneficiaries, including neets, is 512. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers and neets include the following activities: guidance and support, job search, training, support for business creation, allowances and personalised upskilling. i fully support measures that introduce policies to stimulate growth and employment, and i therefore voted in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund (gfa) helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills after they lose their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as when a large company closes down, a factory moves outside the eu or as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the aid to belgian workers is an element of solidarity with the belgians who are members of our group and are in the government coalition in belgium. in addition, the saint-gobain group is the leading glass producer on the european market. in poland, it has production plants in strzemieszyce wielkie (dąbrowa górnicza district), żary and kole. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for stronger coordination at european level and deeper coordination of tax policy in the eu. the text of the report refers several times to previously adopted documents which our delegation has never supported, i.e. the report of the five presidents calling for the strengthening and speedy completion of the banking union. there was also a call for the transfer of labour taxation to taxes on environmental pollution. in view of the above, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for stronger coordination at european level and deeper coordination of tax policy in the eu. the report also stresses the need for eu own resources and calls for steps to be taken towards fiscal consolidation and closer integration in the euro area in order to complete the emu process swiftly. in addition, the text of the report refers several times to previously adopted documents which our delegation has never supported, i.e. the report of the five presidents calling for the strengthening and speedy completion of the banking union. one of the paragraphs also contains a demand for the transfer of labour taxation to taxes on environmental pollution. i therefore could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth analysis, presented by the european commission, opens up the annual cycle of economic governance, called the european semester. the economic and social priorities identified in the 2015 growth survey, namely investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, remain undoubtedly relevant. one of the key challenges facing member states is the continued poor implementation of the country-specific recommendations. without political will and commitment at national level, the required reforms to boost competitiveness, create new and stable jobs and achieve sustainable growth cannot be implemented. there is no doubt that the european commission also has an important role to play in this process. it should seek to make better use of the european structural and investment funds to support the key priorities identified in the country-specific recommendations, including through the application of actions combining the effectiveness of those funds with sound economic governance and the strengthening of the european single market, which is a prerequisite for economic growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because its contents represent an attempt by the eu to encroach on the competences of the member states. these are the records that indicate the eu's intention to control and monitor employment contracts in the member states. there is also a desire to introduce an eu-wide social policy. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ although the unemployment rate in the european union is slowly falling, it remains relatively high, especially among young people, of whom almost a quarter are unemployed. the cost to the community as a whole of such high youth unemployment is estimated at over eur 150 billion per year. member states need to overcome barriers to job creation and improve the functioning of labour markets. i therefore welcome the fact that the european semester based on three main pillars, namely stimulating investment, structural reforms and increasing budgetary accountability has been complemented by a new pillar, employment and social affairs, in the framework of the 2016 european semester. i hope that this will not only put more emphasis on analysing the social and employment situation in the european union, but also make it easier to monitor any disruptions in the member states that are undermining growth and creating new and stable jobs.
in writing. ‒ while understanding and accepting the reasons for the need to strengthen economic policy coordination in the european union in the context of the european semester, a rational approach to the actions proposed to the member states must be maintained. it is difficult to accept the demands to limit the freedom to shape the rules and conditions of employment in poland with the help of european regulations. creating growth requires the right tools, and one of those tools is the ability to influence the labour market. while forms of cooperation at european level to promote employment, such as the eures network, are needed, the possibility of direct intervention by the european commission in the social policies of the member states or in the employment relationship between employer and employee, based on national law, is a bad proposal which i cannot support. this is an example of an unjustified extension of the commission's powers, which will increase the level of bureaucracy in the eu and weaken the ability of member states to respond quickly to employment crises. of course, the report's strengths should be highlighted, including its call for more investment in human capital, the need to protect the market economy and the role of infrastructure investment in generating growth. unfortunately, given the proposals which go too far in restricting the freedom of member states in the area of employment policy and the rejection of many favourable amendments, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ to ensure that eu instruments have an effective impact on growth, job creation and competitiveness, progress in the integration of the single market in the member states is regularly measured. the report highlighted the need to improve the governance and transparency of this process and to strengthen the member states' sense of responsibility. the effective implementation, application and enforcement of single market rules could lead to more opportunities for consumers, quality standards and competition. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ progress in the integration of the single market in the member states is measured regularly to ensure that it is effectively translated into growth, job creation and competitiveness. the report highlighted the need to improve the governance and transparency of this process and to strengthen the member states' sense of responsibility for the implementation of the eu's my aim is to highlight the potential benefits of the single market, while also highlighting unjustified barriers at national level. the report draws attention to the following issues: a single market pillar in the european semester fully respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and a set of analytical tools to better measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market; effective implementation, application and enforcement of single market rules and the need to further develop and strengthen existing mechanisms, tools and instruments to improve governance; action to ensure that problems are effectively addressed at national level and, where possible, through informal means, which could create more opportunities for consumers, lead to the establishment of quality standards and foster competition; coordination of single market priorities in the context of the european semester should be deepened with the involvement of the member states, in a democratic parliamentary process. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the european semester, the procedure under which the member states of the european union coordinate their economic and budgetary policies, is based on three main pillars: stimulating investment, structural reforms and increasing budgetary responsibility, which have been complemented by a new pillar on employment and social affairs. however, i believe that the european semester cannot be assessed in the abstract from the assessment of the state of management of the european single market, which is a prerequisite for economic growth in europe. as rapporteur of the ppe group for the report on the governance of the single market in the european semester, i am pleased that the document adopted by the european parliament contains proposals which i support, in particular in the areas of deregulation of business conditions, strengthening the position of smes, the development of innovation, technological progress, the spread of e-government, and the elimination of non-tariff barriers and national protectionism. these are just some of the conditions that must be met in order to unleash the entrepreneurial energy of the citizens of the union. this is necessary to keep the european economy competitive on the world market. the number of new jobs created and the future prosperity of community citizens will depend on this.
in writing. ‒ the single market remains the central element and the main driving force of the european union's economy. i agree with the rapporteur that, despite the progress made since the creation of the single market, its growth potential has not yet been fully exploited. one of the key needs in managing the single market is to carry out tailor-made economic and social reforms, tackle excessive bureaucracy and protectionism, in order to improve the productivity and competitiveness of the eu economy. it would therefore be justified to include the single market pillar as another pillar of the european semester. this pillar would be treated as a system responsible for regularly monitoring and assessing the integration of the single market and competitiveness. the single market of the 21st century is radically different from that of the 20th century. these changes are largely due to the digital revolution. to this end, appropriate measures should be taken to eliminate the differences that have arisen. i am convinced, as the rapporteur is, that easy access to information for businesses and consumers is a prerequisite for good governance of the single market. i appreciate the work of both the commission and the member states on a number of information portals for different users. a simple, user-friendly portal is needed to improve and simplify access to information and to promote the existing platform, provided that national and local authorities make such a portal available and publicly inform citizens about the possibility of using it.
in writing. ‒ it is hard to disagree with the report's statement that the single market is one of the pillars of the european union. apart from the free movement of persons, this is where the success of european integration is most visible, although we still face shortcomings and the use of non-tariff barriers. the idea of a european semester seems to be the ideal tool to address these problems and to better coordinate national policies in order to strengthen the principle of free movement of goods. the fact that the potential of this tool has not yet been used to strengthen the foundations of the single market is a major negligence on the part of the commission, and i support the call in this report to change this. we have many challenges ahead of us, which are linked to the impact of the digital revolution on the european economy. today, the single market is not just about the traditional trade in goods, but also about the free access to the market for services, the huge potential of online trade and the emergence of new business models such as the sharing economy model. all these challenges of the present were not met in the past when the current shape of the single market was being designed, and we need to find a place for them within all four freedoms. i believe that the potential of the european semester can be effectively used to overcome the barriers to further european economic integration and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution supports the opening of negotiations, recognising that tunisia is an exception among the countries of the region which has successfully transitioned to a democratic country after the arab spring. it also called on the european union and its member states to provide the further assistance needed to consolidate democratic change. the resolution calls on the commission to negotiate a mutually beneficial agreement that will allow for a balanced, asymmetrical and gradual opening of the tunisian market, giving greater and better access to the eu market for tunisian exports. in view of the above, i have voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the european union's priorities in the free trade negotiations with tunisia is undoubtedly a step forward in relations between the two parties. tunisia is an example of a country that consistently pursues democracy in such extraordinary circumstances. the european union's cooperation with tunisia will allow the gradual opening of the tunisian market, the facilitation of exports to the european union and the development of a high level of cooperation in this field.
in writing. ‒ the resolution supports the opening of negotiations, recognising that tunisia is an exception among the countries of the region which has successfully transitioned to a democratic country after the arab spring. it also calls on the eu and its member states to continue to provide tunisia with the assistance it clearly needs to consolidate democratic change. the resolution calls on the commission to negotiate a mutually beneficial agreement on the free trade agreement, which will allow for a balanced, asymmetrical and gradual opening of the tunisian market and give greater and better access to the eu market for tunisian exports. the resolution also calls for further action to support tunisian exports to meet high european standards, especially as regards food safety rules for agricultural products, which is particularly important for smaller producers. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing exceptional autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the economy of the republic of tunisia is based mainly on agriculture and mining. agriculture accounts for 48% of the country's land area. more than 60,000 olive trees grow throughout the country, producing more than 150,000 tons of oil. tunisia is thus the second largest exporter of olive oil and the fourth largest producer in the world. the olive has become the main source of livelihood for the people of tunisia, and for good reason it is called the green treasure of the country. the commission has also provided information on the number of persons killed in the violence in tunisia, including the number of civilians killed in the violence in the country. in addition, the eu remains tunisia's largest trading partner (currently 72% and 75% of tunisian exports). it is one of the european union's most established trading partners in the mediterranean region, having signed an association agreement with the european union in july 1995. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur that the european union must contribute to the economic recovery of tunisia. however, in order to prevent abuses, it should also be ensured that the envisaged autonomous measures actually benefit the tunisian economy they must be conditional on tunisia's compliance with the relevant union rules on the origin of products and related procedures, as well as on effective administrative cooperation between tunisia and the union.
in writing. ‒ the lack of political and economic stability in the european union's immediate neighbourhood is the cause of many threats to our security, including terrorism and uncontrolled immigration. to tackle these phenomena at the root of the problem, we need solid and reliable partners in the north african region; partners who, with strong institutions and a stable economic situation, can provide their citizens with an alternative to escape to europe from poverty and violence. tunisia has many conditions to become such a reliable partner for europe, but it needs our support. the negative experiences of recent years, including the disappointment with the political transformation caused by the arab spring, the disastrous effects of terrorist attacks on the tourism industry, and the pressure from radical islam have significantly delayed the process of building a modern tunisian state. the launch of free trade negotiations with the eu has the opportunity to become a catalyst that will significantly accelerate this process. i am, of course, aware of the unequal position of our economies and all the potential problems that may arise in the course of these negotiations, but i believe that both sides will be able to properly identify the areas of dispute and find a compromise that is beneficial to both sides. i am convinced that only this kind of cooperation, and the resulting rebuilding of a politically and economically stable eu's immediate neighbourhood, will help to address the months-long immigration crisis. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the activities of the european ombudsman require special attention because of the scope of his activities. after her re-election as european ombudsman, ms emily o'reilly continued to conduct courageous investigations and make useful recommendations, in particular on issues such as the lack of transparency of the eu institutions, lobbying, clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, certain european spending, competition policy or the position of citizens. the report adopted and supported initiatives taken at the ombudsman's request, such as: a complaints procedure for refugees in the event of violations of their fundamental rights; improving the functioning of the european citizens' initiative; the interactive 'wishlist for europe' programme launched before the european elections; and better access to the institutions for people with disabilities. in view of the positive assessment of the ombudsman's work, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints about maladministration in the eu institutions and bodies. complaints can be lodged by eu citizens or residents, and by companies and institutions established in the eu. complaints of maladministration may concern, among other things, cases of unfair treatment, discrimination, abuse of power or improper procedures. the european ombudsman's tasks also include protecting the rights of persons with disabilities. in 2014, the ombudsman opened 325 complaint and 17 own-initiative inquiries and closed 387 complaint and 13 own-initiative inquiries. the main sources of complaints were citizens (335) and businesses, associations and other legal entities (52). as regards the country of origin of the complaints, spain is the first (309), followed by germany (219), poland (208) and belgium (147). the ombudsman's annual report shows that the main subject of complaints is public access to documents of the eu institutions. in 2014, 86 (21,5%) of all closed cases concerned access to documents. i welcome the fact that the eu institutions have followed the ombudsman's recommendations by 80%. however, i am concerned that the percentage of non-compliance with its recommendations remains at 20%. although the ombudsman's suggestions are not legally binding, the institutions, bodies and organisations should be required to respond quickly and effectively to his critical remarks and draft recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman, and in particular his work, deserves special attention. mrs o'reilly has worked hard to ensure transparency in the composition of expert groups and drug trials, among other things. i also enthusiastically supported the ombudsman's initiatives to improve access to institutions for people with disabilities and to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state of the european union has the right to apply to the european ombudsman in cases of maladministration by union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. in its report, the european parliament expressed its support for the key issues examined by ms o'reilly, including the transparency of the work of the institutions and their advisory groups, as well as conflicts of interest and access to documents and information. the eu transparency register, an online platform that allows the registration and sharing of information on the interests of a large number of organisations active in the eu institutions, was established in 2012 and is of particular importance for the transparency of the work of the eu institutions and for the involvement of citizens. in conclusion, i believe that the ombudsman's work and her close cooperation with the european parliament are of the utmost importance. i appreciate the commitment of ms emily o'reilly and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report assessing her activities in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's 2014 annual report contained a wealth of key information on both the european union's finances and its policies. unfortunately, in many cases the reports submitted did not convince me to take a clear decision, so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament in its document supported the monetary policy pursued by the european central bank, which is designed not only to guarantee price stability but also to support economic recovery towards job creation, growth and stability, including by increasing the scale of low-interest lending to the real economy. nevertheless, in my view, the use by the european central bank of unconventional monetary policy instruments even if to some extent justified given the situation surrounding the debt crisis, falling inflation, negative credit developments and slow economic growth cannot continue indefinitely. it is up to the individual member states to take decisive action to ensure full implementation of structural reforms and compliance with the rules in force, especially in the area of budgetary discipline. i am glad that this conclusion is also included in the european parliament's document. in addition, in its report, the european parliament welcomed the efforts made by the european central bank to increase its transparency, including by publicly explaining monetary policy decisions immediately after they are taken or by publishing summary minutes of its meetings. for these reasons, i have decided to support the european parliament's report which gives a positive assessment of the european central bank's performance in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the inta committee has prepared a short resolution expressing its support for the commission's decision to launch the preparatory work for the negotiation of a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. the resolution recognised that australia and new zealand are a key part of the eu's overall strategy in the asia-pacific region and that any agreements must be mutually beneficial, taking into account well-known sensitive issues and ensuring that the outermost regions, which enjoy a special status in the eu, are duly taken into account. in view of the recent conclusion of the trans-pacific partnership a free trade area of 12 countries in asia and the pacific , the resolution called on the commission to work as soon as possible to counterbalance any possible adverse effects of the conclusion of the trans-pacific partnership, so that eu companies can continue to be competitive on a par with those in the usa, canada, chile, mexico, japan and other countries. i voted in favour of the proposed document.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners. they share our values and are committed to the common cause of prosperity and security in the world. the european union and new zealand are parties to the agreement on government procurement and australia is in the process of acceding to the agreement. in addition, they are engaged in multilateral negotiations to further liberalise trade in organic products and trade in services (tisa). the eu is australia's and new zealand's third most important trading partner, and these countries rank 21st and 51st respectively among our largest trading partners (data from 2014). australia and new zealand are two countries that are fully governed by the rule of law and currently have strong environmental, human rights, social and labour rights. the conclusion of free trade agreements with australia and new zealand will strengthen trade and investment relations and provide a stepping stone to a higher level of economic relations. the contracts must cover investments such as trade in goods and services, public procurement, competition, regulatory issues or technological research. we call on the commission to carry out as soon as possible a comprehensive assessment of the impact of possible agreements on sustainable development, also taking into account the commitment of all parties to negotiate in the most transparent way possible, respecting best practices and through a constant dialogue with the social partners and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted to open negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. both countries play a very important role in the overall strategy of the european union for asia and the pacific. however, appropriate analyses, including a scope analysis or an impact assessment, are necessary for a proper evaluation of the fta. i also call on the commission to monitor the effects of the trans-pacific partnership closely, which will certainly allow european union companies to develop and reach the level of countries such as japan and canada.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, sharing common values and a commitment to global security and prosperity. unfortunately, despite such close relations, the european union has not yet concluded any bilateral trade agreement with these two leading economies of the world. in its new trade and investment strategy 'trade for the benefit of all', the european commission has, however, indicated the need to open negotiations with australia and new zealand. the ambitious agreement will undoubtedly, in addition to increasing trade and generating new investment, make a clear contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe in the long term. the european parliament in its resolution called on the european commission to take action to negotiate a solid and ambitious agreement that would bring significant benefits to european citizens and businesses. in addition, the document provides for the agreement to include provisions on the protection of sensitive eu sectors while protecting european standards. it is now expected that the european commission will carry out a comprehensive assessment of the impact of possible agreements on the european economy as soon as possible and ask the council to grant a negotiating mandate to start talks with australia and new zealand.
in writing. ‒ the removal of barriers to international trade is undoubtedly a good trend, which contributes to economic growth and closer cooperation between the european union and other world economies. in this context, the conclusion of a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, taking into account the interests of both parties, appears necessary and justified. despite their geographical location, both australia and new zealand are free-market countries with a long tradition of democracy and a modern legal system that guarantees the protection of commitments. both countries are participants in multilateral talks on the liberalization of trade in services and are important links in the emerging asia-pacific free trade area integrating the two americas and east asia. they are therefore vital partners for the world's largest economies and the eu should also be open to increasing trade with them. the mandate given to the european commission is not unconditional and it expresses the expectations of the european parliament for the future negotiations. among these demands, the need for the greatest possible transparency in the negotiations, the need to take into account the special role of european agriculture and its sensitivity to the rapid growth of imports from outside the eu, and the need to guarantee eu citizens the highest standards of protection of personal data, intellectual property and phytosanitary rules. the adopted report takes these issues into account.
in writing. ‒ the review of the rules of the pet transport system (pets) under regulation 576/2013 received broad support in parliament in 2013 for clarifying the meaning of commercial movements of animals and allowing for the introduction of security enhancing features in animal passports. it also introduced a new minimum age for rabies vaccination and new rules for people travelling with more than five pets. compatible identification and registration systems can reduce the scope of illegal trade in pet animals and thus better protect animal and public health and enhance transparency. the resolution calls on the commission to consider adopting a delegated act in accordance with article 114 to allow for the introduction of compatible registration systems for cats, dogs and other domestic animals in the european union. with that in mind, i voted to pass the bill.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all member states. movement of animals may pose a risk to their health as well as to public health. animals are also traded. those compatible registration systems will ensure transparency, animal and public health and reduce illegal trade in pet animals.
in writing. ‒ the illegal trade in pets is not, contrary to appearances, a marginal phenomenon. the current national rules on the registration of pet animals are not sufficient to counteract this phenomenon. the proposed solution aims to better coordinate such systems at european level, which will make it possible to detect this type of crime more effectively. given that pets are carriers of many diseases, the lack of full knowledge of their origin or age poses a major threat to the health and safety of eu citizens. the creation of european standards for the registration of pets will bring many benefits in the fight against dishonest breeders and sellers who do not respect animal welfare rules. it will also help to combat animal cruelty and will make it much easier for border authorities to check people travelling with animals within the eu. of course, the proposed regulations must take into account the highest standards of protection of the personal data of the owners of registered animals and only take into account the information that is actually necessary for their proper and effective functioning. understanding the need to combat illegal pet trade and the public health risks posed by the lack of controls on the movement of animals within the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ despite un peacekeeping efforts, there are fears that the violence in yemen in recent months could escalate into a full-scale armed conflict, with the population, with access to heavy weapons, plunged into tribal wars mirroring those in syria or iraq. recently, there has been confusion over the yemeni government's decision - eventually reversed - to declare un human rights envoy george abu al-zulof persona non grata. of course, in a broader context, there is also concern about the regular violations of human rights, including attacks on journalists and media outlets, the increasing number of disappearances, violations of the un convention against torture and the intimidation and detention of religious minorities, and the alleged use of children in armed conflict. given the content of the document and its contents, i have taken the difficult decision to abstain. i think the document should be much more explicit in its content.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i believe that the parties to the conflict should respect the basic provisions of international humanitarian law and i am in favour of member states refraining from transferring arms and military support to saudi arabia and its allies in the conflict. since the escalation of the conflict in yemen last march, more than 6,000 people have been killed and more than 35,000 injured. over 90% of this number are civilians. the houthi shia rebels and the overthrown central government, backed by sunni tribes, are merely pawns in a larger political game between the governments of iran and saudi arabia in this bloody conflict. the chaos that has engulfed the country has also led to economic disaster and the intensification of terrorist activities by al-qaeda and isis. al-qaeda extremists have seized the strategic coastal city of ahwar in southern yemen, consolidating their control of the region. political attempts to resolve the conflict have failed, and the humanitarian situation is deteriorating day by day over 14 million people are in need of food aid, and bomb attacks are not avoiding hospitals and civilian settlements. in addition, according to the stockholm international peace research institute, 59% of arms imports to saudi arabia between 2009 and 2014 originated from europe. eu countries cannot work for democratization on the one hand and contribute to the numerous violations of international humanitarian law and human rights on the other.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in taking part in the debate on the 'milk at school' and 'fruit at school' programmes, i would like to point out that in my view they are effective in changing the eating habits of children and young people. the first has been going on for nearly 40 years, involving nearly 20 million children. the second is much shorter, but it is also attended by about ten million students. the commission's initiative to implement both programmes under a common legal and timeframe therefore deserves the strong support of parliament, especially as this means simplifying the procedures for joining and participating in both programmes. this in turn will stimulate an increase in the number of beneficiaries of both programmes increase the number of young people benefiting from them and thus the number of consumers of milk and milk products and fruit and vegetables in the future, creating additional demand for european agricultural products. finally, i would like to thank the commission for its decision to increase the funding for the 'school milk' programme by eur 20 million, which will eventually bring the total for the 'school milk' programme to eur 100 million and for the 'school fruit' programme to eur 150 million.
i see there are a lot of applications to ask questions by raising a blue card. i therefore adopted the rule that no more than one such question may be put to one speaker. it'll really help us get organized and make things better.
you've given us a taste for these bananas, mr. messenger. i'm sure some of us will benefit from that.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health ('animal health law') (11779/1/2015 - c8-0008/2016 - 2013/0136 ((cod)) (rapporteur: jasenko selimovic (a8-0041/2016).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr selimovic, and the previous rapporteur, mrs paulsen, who is not here today, on a very well-done job. we are adopting a regulation of major importance to the european union. animal health is important not just for the sake of the animals themselves, but first and foremost for the sake of public health, for the sake of human health as well. as shadow rapporteur for the ecr group, i am pleased that the requests to include pet health and, indirectly, homeless animals in the animal protection strategy have been taken into account. the obligation to register the identification of these animals introduced into the strategy is a very important step forward in this regard, but i think we should take the next steps. the european union should take responsibility for a humane, rational solution to the problems of homeless animals: adoption, sterilisation, humanitarian programmes should be supported by the european union and i am calling for this from this place.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march 2016. (the sitting was suspended.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. protecting animal health at every stage of the food production process is a priority for the health of the citizens of the european union. the recently developed 'animal health law' of the european parliament and the council, which brings together nearly 40 pieces of legislation, will allow for the introduction of comprehensive, uniform, flexible and transparent animal welfare legislation. the relationship between animal health (welfare) and public health and food safety is indisputable. health protection must be ensured at all stages of food production from farming to consumption, food contamination must be prevented and food hygiene requirements must be improved. this is the only way to maintain food security in the european union and in third countries and to ensure that people have sufficient access to safe, high-quality food.
the next item is the report by knut fleckenstein, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports (com ((2013) 0296 c7-0144/2013 2013/0157 ((cod)) (a8-0023/2016)).
blue-card question. – ms anderson, you mentioned something about your doubts concerning social issues. to what extent are you not satisfied with the social package in this commission bill? second, what is your opinion of european added value concerning this particular bill?
madam president! the rapporteur said that today's draft is better than the two previously rejected. i think that after 15 years europe deserves very good legislation in this area, which leaves no doubt about its interpretation. the rapporteur! poland has no problems with transparency. the commission has also expressed its concern about the provisions of the regulation which do not take into account the specificities of ports in the european union countries, based on the principle that a common european approach is better than action taken at member state level. that's an approach we can't accept. nor can we support legislation that increases bureaucracy and will necessitate changes in the competence of many polish institutions. in poland we have very good regulations that guarantee financial transparency, freedom of economic activity, competition, proper supervision. polish ports are developing very well and we are concerned that these entries will disrupt this development. the polish delegation will therefore vote against this solution, appreciating the efforts of both the rapporteur and all the deputies.
in writing. i am critical of the proposal on port services. i also want to announce that i will consistently vote against the current version of the report. i believe that the eu member states already have sufficient competence to improve the quality of port services, modernise port facilities and increase the financial transparency of ports. contrary to the intention, the draft regulation may result in a deterioration of the operating conditions of ports. the expected new port authority powers, which could limit the number of available port services, are also a concern. this is a direct attack on the principle of free enterprise and competition. i base my position on numerous discussions with experts, including the port authorities in gdańsk, gdynia, szczecin and świnoujście.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the institutions, both european and national, have a duty to look after taxpayers' money. they must be vigilant about the proper spending of eu money. therefore, the fight against all pathologies in this area must be a priority, especially since fraud and corruption are a source of funding for organised crime and terrorist groups and, very importantly undermine citizens' trust in public institutions and democratic processes. they also have a negative impact on the union's competitiveness in the global economy. the diversity of the legal and administrative systems of the member states makes it difficult to combat irregularities and fraud. the commission's action must therefore be intensive and systematic. the effective recovery of undue payments from the union budget, the more efficient collection of own resources and the establishment of uniform reporting rules are essential elements of effective action. the projects selected for implementation should be aimed at promoting economic growth and job creation. at the same time, the commission should promote rules on the protection of whistleblowers, access to information and transparency of lobbying activities. the proposal to provide financial support for cross-border investigative journalism, which will lose its independence if it receives budgetary money, and journalists will have to disclose the methods and means used when settling grants, raises legitimate doubts. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation.
madam president! firstly, i value the fact that you are shaping our community's awareness of the need to protect our common financial interest. this awareness is not so obvious. secondly, the fact that you show that there are our community finances and the finances of the member states, and that there is interest protection at both levels, is a move in the same direction, namely towards the common protection of the financial interest of the union as a whole. another thing: a great many things will not depend on you alone, mrs georgieva, but on the commission as a whole and on all of us. starting from this - when we are talking right here about the spending - that if we officially continue to consider it a virtue that it is better to spend money from the budget than to invest, then this will be a problem. and look at the court of auditors' position: of the 650 million euros at the airport, at least 125 million euros were spent improperly.
author.– madam president, big data certainly has enormous potential to push europe’s economy forward. europe needs to be ambitious, to lead, on big data but europe should also lead in protecting our values. first of all, privacy and data protection. in order to lead on big data europe needs to set an innovation friendly regulatory framework that ensures, first of all, both data security and privacy. secondly, to encourage private investment in both infrastructure and research and development. point number 3: creation of a true digital union with all the standards: intellectual property rights and open public data. point number 4: foster start-ups and smes in the data driven economy. and point number 5: involve society so that it can benefit from big data and be empowered by it. we call on the commission and the council to make all the necessary efforts so europe could become a global leader on big data. i would like to thank our colleague, barbara kappel, for her crucial involvement in the preparation at committee level for this oral question and the motion for a resolution. and let me say, i did not mention a very important point, of course, which is consumer protection and consumer rights, but this is the responsibility of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and certainly madam chair, vicky ford, will speak about that.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, what is the objective? a data-driven economy can give us more efficient products, user-friendly services and personalised solutions. we can say: data-driven governance, science, thanks to analytical algorithms, data-driven cities known as smart cities, medicine which can change the model of healthcare from reactive to preventive, and a data-driven industry with communication between things, robots and people and, as a result, an internet of everything for everybody. it is also the best leverage for making smes more competitive and cost-efficient, scaling up their businesses. what do we need? a better framework, both regulatory and non-regulatory. the new technologies require much more soft law. this should be with respect to privacy and security, but also flexible for new opportunities for data processing concerned with solving the problem or the ownership of data. open data as a basis, accessibility of many kinds of data and the possibility to use them for public and commercial purposes; efficient infrastructure; future 5g for digital industrialisation, a network of high-performance computing centres and cloud development; a well-educated workforce, new e-skills development in the whole system; coverage of standardised and interoperable solutions all over europe. all of these create the opportunity for the new european competitive advantages. we have no time to lose, so we await consistent proposals from the commission.
madam president! i'm reading here that we're in danger of being left behind, that we're being chased by humans... i understand we're being overtaken by the united states. i would ask, does anybody in the united states have a debate in congress, or do they just let thousands, hundreds of thousands of private companies build databases and just make sure that it's done in a decent way? the illusion that we are the ones who are going to build the data sets and not private companies is an absolute illusion. you've never done anything great before. all the inventions come from private companies. and i'd also like to warn you that the real data is not coming from the data sets. the data sets are publicly available. the point is, the real data is collected from private information, from watching tv, from reading data. we don't realize how important information outside of the data sets is. we just lock ourselves in an ivory tower. i agree with the opinion that this is done mainly in the interests of large companies. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! i would like to call on all the european institutions today to be guided by the need to ensure that the laws they adopt are clear and transparent. unfortunately, there are still cases where the law, instead of facilitating, hinders the functioning of various actors and introduces legal uncertainty that hinders the development of innovation and competitiveness of the european economy. i am speaking about this today in the light of the european commission's plans, which announced that it will publish a draft revision of the directive on the posting of workers tomorrow. in preparing the new draft legislation, the european commission completely ignored the fact that the implementation process of the 2014 implementing directive is currently underway and ignored numerous signals from many social partners, including member states, who requested that new initiatives be suspended until the implementation proposals are submitted. the commission also failed to carry out the necessary public consultations and the revision of the directive is to be carried out separately from the revision of regulation no 883 on the coordination of social security systems. the division of work on these two documents may ultimately lead to further legal inaccuracies and inconsistencies.
a few months ago i said here, from this very place, that president martin schulz is the man responsible for the success of the national front in france. it was treated as a joke, but i had some satisfaction yesterday when mr michael gove, the uk justice minister, said that the european union was responsible for the success of nationalism in europe. and that is the truth. unfortunately, in europe, the schools don't teach cybernetics, they don't teach that every action has a reaction and that society is a living organism. if you push in one direction, it obviously responds in the other direction. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! researchers have studied american basketball players and found that tall men earn more than short men, which proves that tall men are better suited to basketball. the same is true if women earn less than men in the same position. it means they're less suited to him than men. europe was once ruled by women, because whoever raises children rules the world. women have been denied that right, children have been taken away from them, sent to day care centers, kindergartens, where the state raises them. and women have been sent to jobs that are much less well-paid, much less suitable for them, and therefore, of course, much less well-paid. and you'll notice that in extreme sports, like chess or bridge, women make up only 1% of the players. and if in some field women represent more than 1%, then it means that there is some artificial pressure from the european union, which causes an obvious lowering of the level of the discipline. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i want to inform you that tall men also earn more than short men. there is such a social injustice. and i was playing basketball in the second polish league and we were winning against the first polish women's team, by about 50 points.
in writing. international women's day is a good time to reflect on both the achievements and challenges of women's rights. one of these challenges is access to education. the international community agrees that education is the best social, economic and political investment in development. women's education raises awareness of their needs and rights, affects their health and provides opportunities for improving the economic situation of the whole family. yet, millions of girls and women around the world still lack access to education and training. to change this, we need a multi-layered approach to access to education. first, education should be accessible to the widest possible range of people, regardless of gender, socioeconomic status or place of residence. in this context, the state has a role to play in providing free basic education and financial support for people whose access to education may be impeded, for example, by their place of residence, and in creating a friendly educational infrastructure. second, education must be tailored to the needs of different communities. curricula should cover both basic social needs and human rights knowledge and skills. mutual respect, tolerance, openness and fairness are values that are essential to achieve equal opportunities for women and men.
madam president! the situation of women refugees is indeed appalling, and in many cases they are paying the price for the journey to europe with their own bodies: both during and after the journey, they are unfortunately exposed to rape, violence and misunderstanding. the tragic situation in many of the reception centers has led to more tragedies. this situation independent of the assessment of the migration crisis itself requires a decisive response that could improve the lot of women in the european union. unfortunately, once again the european parliament is proving that it cannot stop at what could unite us all, but uses every opportunity to promote gender ideology, to impose the right to abortion or the equality of sexual minorities. it 's not really a problem for women who are ... (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
women and children fleeing brutal violence experience horror and trauma. but there is also a great paradox: what they are fleeing often comes back to them on the run, even in the european union. i therefore understand the arguments put forward in the report, although i do not agree with all of them. but the question is, why is this happening, why is this a paradox? the reason is that often in europe, often in the member states, religion, history, tradition, principles and the law of origin of these people are placed above european law, or at least next to european law. this is tolerated, and guests must obey the rules and regulations of the host, not the other way around. one of the elements of our action should therefore be the strict application of european law, democratic norms and the principles of civil society to those whom we host on our continent. it is also necessary to ensure that all member states sign the istanbul convention, i.e. the council of europe convention.
in writing. ‒ european animal health law will replace some 40 different european legal acts in this field. union legislation on animal diseases and potentially also on human diseases will bring together and update fragmented previous legislation to prevent or contain new outbreaks and to keep pace with scientific developments. these rules will be the first ever to combine animal welfare and public health in eu law and will be an important tool in the fight against antimicrobial resistance in humans, animals and the environment. all farmers and owners of animals and persons dealing in them will be required to observe the rules of animal husbandry and to apply veterinary measures with prudence and responsibility. to tackle the problem of stray animals carrying diseases, legislation has been introduced requiring registration of all owners and sellers of animals, which entitles the commission to ask eu member states to set up a computerised database of dogs and other domestic animals if the need arises. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that current eu animal health legislation has been successful in significantly reducing animal diseases and responding well to emerging crises. however, its main weakness is the existence of more than 50 scattered legal acts and several hundred implementing regulations. the lack of a horizontal approach and the complexity and often contradictory rules make life very difficult not only for member states' administrations but also for breeders, veterinarians and traders. it is therefore welcome that the new regulation creates a unified legal framework in this area, which is well in line with our efforts to simplify the cap. another long-awaited move is to put more emphasis on prevention of animal diseases, in keeping with the motto: prevention is better than cure. this will include increased responsibility for those handling animals, better monitoring and certification. the current legal framework is more focused on fighting epidemics than on preventing them. it is also worth highlighting the issues of increasing antibiotic resistance, increasing biosecurity on farms and the need to improve the skills of animal handlers. these are among the main demands that parliament put forward in the course of its work and it is pleased that they have been incorporated in the final text of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ there are currently two separate eu-funded grant programmes the school milk and school fruit programmes. participation in the programmes is voluntary. the commission proposed that the two programmes be covered by a common legal framework. this is to increase their efficiency, reduce the administrative burden and improve overall performance. the agreement reached is in line with the ep's budget position: eur 150 million per year for the 'fruit in schools' programme and eur 100 million for the 'milk in schools' programme (i.e. eur 20 million more than the commission's proposal). the list of products covered by these programmes has been considerably extended. in addition to fresh products, member states will be able to distribute other low-processed dairy products such as natural yoghurt and cheese. as regards processed fruit and vegetables and other dairy products such as fruit yoghurt and chocolate milk, they were covered by the scheme under additional conditions. given the objectives of the programmes, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ obesity and overweight among school-age children is now an epidemic in highly developed economies. it is spreading at an ever-increasing rate and is reaching ever younger people. bad eating habits acquired in childhood can affect health in adulthood and, as a result, contribute to many diseases. the european union is trying to combat this phenomenon, which is why we voted today on the draft resolution of the european parliament and the council on a programme of aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. eu financial assistance for the supply of selected products to schools is intended to help promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products by children. the programme aims to increase the distribution of vegetables, fruit, milk and other products, i.e. cheese, yoghurt and lactose-free milk, in schools. it is essential to introduce nutrition education among children, promote healthy food and develop food programmes in educational institutions.
in writing. ‒ the conclusions of the eu's existing aid programmes show that their continuation is of great social importance and benefit to citizens. the european union's financial support for children in educational establishments is undoubtedly helping to promote healthy eating habits, reduce obesity among the youngest and thus promote healthy, local products such as fruit, vegetables and dairy products. i personally think that the aid programs that provide fruit, vegetables and milk to schools are a proven investment in children's health. we need to ensure that such programmes are continued, improved and more effectively implemented and managed. the member states, and above all local authorities, which are closest to citizens, should play a major role in this. therefore, in supporting the aims and principles of the marc tarbella report 'programme to assist the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments', i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ there are currently two separate grant programmes funded by the eu under the cap: the 'school milk' and 'school fruit' programmes. all eu member states are involved in the 'school milk' programme. the 'fruit in school' programme was open to 25 member states in 2013/2014 (uk, sweden and finland did not participate). participation in the programmes is voluntary. the commission proposed that the two programmes be covered by a common legal framework. this is to increase their efficiency, reduce the administrative burden and improve overall performance. the list of products covered by these programmes has been considerably extended. in addition to fresh products, member states will be able to distribute other low-processed dairy products such as natural yoghurt and cheese. as for processed fruit and vegetables and other dairy products such as fruit yogurts and chocolate milk, they have been covered by the scheme under the following conditions: only the milk component of chocolate milk and other flavoured milk (which must contain at least 90% milk) and fruit yogurts (which must contain at least 75% milk) will be financed by the eu; sweeteners and artificial flavour enhancers will now, for the first time, be completely banned in products distributed under the school schemes. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk continues to fall in europe. at the same time, more than 20 million children are overweight, and young people on average eat only 30 to 50 percent of the recommended daily intake of fruits and vegetables. that's why the eu programmes: milk at school and fruit and vegetables at school are so important. parliament's success is to win an additional €20 million per year for milk-related programmes, bringing annual funding for milk and milk products to €100 million, against a budget of €150 million for fruit and vegetables. increasing budgetary flexibility is also a good solution. in the area of transfer between programmes, it is provided that member states will be able to transfer 20% from one programme to another, and an additional 5% of the transfer will be possible in the event of an exceptional difficult situation, such as low consumption or market conditions, which is what we are currently facing, for example, in the milk market. it is good that both programmes have a ban on artificial sweeteners and flavour enhancers. in principle, products containing added sugar, salt and fat will also be prohibited, which should also have a positive effect on health and education. finally, it is a good move to promote the eu more in these programmes, which are funded by the eu. in these difficult times for the community, every form of emphasis on its activities for its citizens is needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a european parliament regulation on a programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments, increasing funding by eur 20 million per year. unfortunately, there is a downward trend in the eu in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk, especially among children and adolescents aged 6 to 10. this trend is driven by the increasing number of children who are overweight, obese and lactose intolerant to dairy products. given the length of time children spend in school, it is crucial to use increased funding in facilities to provide milk and fruit to children. it would be directed both at distribution and at activities promoting healthy eating habits, including the consumption of local products. member states that join this voluntary aid scheme commit themselves to promoting healthier eating habits, local food, organic farming and the fight against food waste. children should also have a better understanding of farming and cultivation, for example by visiting farms.
in writing. ‒ i believe that competition between ports is more conducive to the efficiency of the port industry than mandatory regulation of port activities. while welcoming some of the improvements, the polish governments, port owners and trade unions have maintained a strong opposition to the document. concerns were also frequently raised that the social legislation introduced by the rapporteur would result in an overly strict implementation of the existing provisions on the transfer of workers due to a change of service provider and the current ilo guidelines on training and occupational safety. with that in mind, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the package because the current draft is flawed, inconsistent and lacks logic. it will not improve the business situation but will create additional bureaucratic burdens. i do not find any proposals to improve the competitiveness of ports or factors that can level the playing field in the sector in question. the diversity of the european port sector makes it impossible to establish a common legal framework for all ports and their managing authorities without sacrificing their specificity and without reducing the particular role they play in the national and regional economy. i am particularly critical of the form of regulation that the commission has chosen to achieve its objectives. i do not agree with the conditions set out in article 14 of the draft regulation which establishes the fees and defines the components of the port infrastructure. this will lead to economic uncertainty and discourage investment. competing port service providers must be able to set charges for their infrastructure. i also oppose the creation of new administrative structures or the mandatory setting up of port user committees, which the draft regulation introduces. these provisions are contrary to one of its explicit aims, namely to reduce red tape. the project seriously interferes with the structure, organisation and independence of ports.
in writing. ‒ trans-european transport networks (ten-t) contribute to the smooth functioning and development of the internal market and ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion. the ten-t programme is a european union transport assistance programme and is addressed to all member states. it is designed to increase economic activity and cooperation and to contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industry on world markets. the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports aims to contribute to a more efficient, integrated and sustainable functioning of the ten-t network. the amendments and additions to the regulation are aimed at modernising port services and operations and creating a framework to increase investment in ports. administrative simplification will allow for faster customs clearance and thus improve port efficiency. there are currently many systems of port and port services organisations, and this resolution does not impose a single, specific model. it opens the door to port managers and gives them greater freedom in their decision-making. a well-functioning port such as the one in poland will avoid additional burdens, while the remaining ports will have the conditions to solve their own structural problems.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation is the third attempt to regulate the market for port services. the ep did not take a position in the previous term and the work was suspended mainly because of the provisions of chapter ii on market access. eu action in the field of maritime transport is a shared competence under the tfeu. the management of maritime ports is a matter for the discretion of the member state, which itself establishes the regime governing maritime ports in its territory, monitors and supervises it, controls the management of public funds and ensures that the principles of competitiveness in the provision of port services are respected. eu member states have sufficient powers to support ports to improve the quality of their services, modernise port facilities and increase their financial independence without additional new eu regulations. the solutions in place in polish seaports are good enough to avoid the need to adopt new ones, and the polish port market is more competitive than the market in the old eu. the regulation may weaken the competitive position of polish ports and worsen their operating conditions, worsen the operating conditions of companies servicing ships in ports or even drive them out of the market, and result in arbitrary deprivation of the possibility of providing services in a port, the possibility of limiting the number of port service providers and chaos in port activities, already regulated since 1996 by the law on ports of special importance in poland. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ for the third time in recent years, the commission has put forward a proposal for a regulation to contribute to a more efficient, integrated and sustainable functioning of the ten-t network by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports, their financing, management and competitiveness. the commission's objectives seem to be justified, but the specific legal proposals contained in the document may raise some concerns. the proposal includes solutions such as imposing public service obligations on specific providers, differentiating charges for the use of port infrastructure according to commercial practices and environmental and energy efficiency. i believe that this is an overreaching interference which, instead of meeting the objectives of the regulation, may in effect lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of the sector and to the introduction of charges which some providers of port services will be unable to bear. moreover, the application of the 'one-size-fits-all' principle may lead to worse effects than those currently achieved through national legislation. moreover, eu action in the port sector should also take into account the local and regional dimension, as well as the specific hydrological and ecological conditions of marine areas. i therefore decided to vote against the ep report on access to the market for port services and transparency of port financing.
in writing. ‒ ports are a vital part of the transport sector in the european union and their proper functioning is of great importance for the economic development of the member states. the current regulations leave a significant part of the port infrastructure management competence in the hands of governments, which allows for a coherent policy, stimulating investment and defending the interests of national port operators. the commission proposal will have a negative impact on the situation of ports in many countries, increasing bureaucracy and limiting the influence of member states in shaping their own policy in this area. the commission notes that the polish ports have a significant market share in the polish ports market, which is expected to grow by around 10% in the near future. in western europe, ports have enjoyed generous public support for many years and have built up a strong position in the european market. now, through eu-level regulation, the polish government, among others, is trying to prevent similar actions, which will consolidate the competitive advantage of western european ports, especially german ports. we've seen this kind of mechanism work before in the shipbuilding industry. we must remember that the right slogans about the need to open up the market, simplify procedures and reduce costs are often hidden by particular national interests. given the possible negative effects of the commission's proposal on polish ports, i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the regulation is to examine changes in the prices of services and consumer goods purchased by households over time. the regulation provides for comparable inflation rates in the euro area, the eu, the european economic area and other countries, including acceding and candidate countries, calculated on the basis of a standardised approach and a single set of definitions. the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. the current hicp regulation dates from 1995. new trends in consumer price statistics therefore require a review of the legal framework in order to ensure the greatest possible comparability for the main users of the hicp. this regulation takes into account the changes in the eu decision-making process introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which gives the commission (in this case eurostat) the power to adopt implementing measures (implementing acts) or legislative measures that may amend non-essential elements of the regulation (delegated acts). i voted in favour of the motion as it stands.
in writing. ‒ the hicp regulation measures changes in the prices of services and consumer goods purchased by households over time. the hicp regulation provides comparable inflation rates in the euro area, the eu, the european economic area and other countries, including acceding and candidate countries, calculated on the basis of a standardised approach and a single set of definitions. the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. the current hicp regulation dates from 1995 and new trends in consumer price statistics therefore require a review of the legal framework to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of the hicp. this regulation also takes into account the changes to the eu decision-making process introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which gives the commission the power to adopt implementing or legislative measures that may amend non-essential elements of the regulation. the final agreement provides that the oef regulation will be possible if a uniform way of collecting these indicators in each member state is established, which currently does not exist. the national statistical authorities will maintain control of the details by means of implementing acts, while eurostat will focus on the specific details of the euro area by means of delegated acts. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament regulation on harmonised indices of consumer prices. these indicators are used to measure inflation adequately in all countries of the european union. in addition, they are used in the assessment of national competitiveness in the context of the commission's macroeconomic imbalance procedure. it is therefore essential that statistics based on harmonised consumption indicators are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and across all product categories. in order to ensure comparability of indicators, uniform conditions for the categorisation of hicps are needed. in addition, in order to help member states to produce comparable consumer price indices, it is essential that methodological guidelines are drawn up and regularly updated by the european commission in close cooperation with the member states within the framework of the european statistical system.
in writing. ‒ the draft report submitted is based on the 2014 olaf annual report and the commission's report. the rapporteur supports the implementation of the anti-fraud strategy by all commission services and recommends that eu agencies, executive agencies and joint undertakings do the same. it also asks the commission to include a chapter on results in the forthcoming report on the fight against corruption in the eu. the document calls on the commission to take full responsibility for recovering funds unduly paid from the eu budget and to maintain a strict policy of withholding and suspending payments. member states must take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the european union as they take to combat fraud affecting their own financial interests. however, in view of the fact that compromise amendment no 9 (paragraph 52, paragraph 53) was adopted in the commission vote, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the implementation of an anti-fraud strategy by all commission services and recommends that eu agencies, executive agencies and joint undertakings do the same. it also asks the commission to include a chapter on results in the forthcoming report on the fight against corruption in the eu. the commission was called upon to take full responsibility for the recovery of funds unduly paid from the eu budget and to maintain a strict policy of withholding and suspending payments. the rapporteur points out that member states must take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the european union as they take to combat fraud affecting their own financial interests. the report nevertheless supports the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office and calls for the adoption of a directive on the protection of financial interests covering vat-related matters. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ safeguarding the eu's financial interests while increasing citizens' confidence by ensuring that their money is used properly, efficiently and effectively is at the heart of the community's action. one of the key issues raised in the ep's report on the protection of the union's financial interests is the call on the european commission to develop a corruption index to assess member states' policies. according to this index, countries where the risk of corruption is highest will be subject to special controls on the spending of eu money. the document also highlighted the adoption by member states of a regulation establishing a european public prosecutor's office to combat fraud more effectively and more quickly across europe. every year, up to 10-15% of eu funds are misused or illegally spent, to the detriment of the eu and its citizens. in recent months, the court of auditors' report has also shown that the union is not sufficiently effective in controlling and combating crossborder fraud, especially in the field of tax policy.
the omission of references to the family in the report on the gender dimension of european parliament policy is an act of disregard for the rights of millions of families in europe who want to devote themselves to raising children and for the millions of women in europe who, often having to work, aspire to devote themselves to housework and child rearing. these women bring enormous value to the lives of their children first, their nations and europe as a whole. it is a pity that the european parliament has once again shown such disregard for family rights, although of course the parliament has those it supports support for the political claims of the homosexual movement was of course not lacking in this report.
in writing. ‒ the gender idea in the document is not convincing, as there is no evidence that it actually improves the situation of women. for example, the main instrument of gender amendments is in most cases the addition of one word to the existing text, which is 'gender', 'woman' or 'female/feminine'. it's a small relief for women. given that change does not literally change things, i think we need to look for solutions that have a clear gender transition. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, equality between women and men is a fundamental right and a necessary condition for achieving the community's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. there are still structural differences in the treatment of women and men in our society. despite the efforts of the commission and the member states, the growth rate of women's employment remains unsatisfactory. since 2002, it has changed from only 58,1% to 62,8%. if current trends continue, the 75% target of the europe 2020 strategy will not be reached until 2038. gender mainstreaming, the report stresses, must be two-dimensional both by mainstreaming it into different policy strategies and by addressing the unequal representation of women and men in policy areas. i welcome the outcome of today's vote and the rapporteur's proposed package of measures to make the current gender mainstreaming framework more effective and efficient. in this context, the most important aspects are to strengthen cooperation with national parliaments to increase the exchange of information and contacts for further strategy development and to increase the influence of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on budgetary issues.
in writing. ‒ the report 'gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament' was produced to ascertain the extent to which the co-legislator on equality in the european union applies the principle of equal treatment to itself. unfortunately, the report goes far beyond the evaluation function, which was the first motivation for the document, and contains many proposals that, in my opinion, will not improve the situation of women, are counterproductive and, above all, do not result from any obvious need, such as the amounts for women and men in the various committees. i voted against many of the specific solutions which i consider to be unnecessary or even harmful, but in the final vote i supported the report because it is an imperfect but necessary step towards a systematic evaluation of parliament's compliance with eu law on the principle that order must always come first.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an opportunity to assess the results achieved and to propose new solutions for the three-year gender mainstreaming policy plan, as mentioned in previous parliament resolutions on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament. the report contains a number of controversial proposals, including: gender parity for committee chairmanships; gender budgeting; systematic gender impact assessments of new legislative proposals or commission policy proposals; gender training for all ep staff (mandatory), as well as for meps, political group staff and parliamentary assistants (where available); gender neutral language guidelines and training for interpretation and translation services; numerous references to the situation of lgbtiq people. the whole idea of gender mainstreaming is unconvincing, because there is no evidence that it actually improves the situation of women. for example, the main instrument of gender amendments is in most cases the addition of one word to the existing text, which is 'gender', 'woman' or 'female/feminine'. it's a small relief for women. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is a fundamental right, a common value of the european union, and a necessary condition for achieving the union's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. there is no doubt that women have been discriminated against and treated much worse than men for centuries. moreover, unfortunately, in many areas, women still face problems, barriers and clear inequalities. promoting gender equality is more than just prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sex. positive action to support women is the basis for their full inclusion in the labour market, social life and political and economic decision-making. but the fight for equality cannot be carried out thoughtlessly and at any cost. it is not possible to impose that questions of competence or mere human trust should be less important than arithmetical proportions, which would be the case if quotas were introduced for middle and senior management positions in the european parliament. it would also be a bad idea for political groups to make it compulsory to nominate candidates for chairmanship of parliamentary committees, groups or delegations on the basis of gender, rather than knowledge, experience (and therefore competence). even less clear is the assessment of the union budget in terms of gender equality. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the problem of gender inequality is one of many that cannot be solved by creating absurd regulations that defy common sense. the report we voted on today is an example of the kind of activity of this house which contributes to the consolidation of the view of the european union as the source of many nonsensical ideas. ideologising the gender aspect does not help to solve existing problems, but creates a climate of absurdity and makes a mockery of the efforts of those communities that really fight against discrimination against women. as a member of parliament from poland, i am familiar with the climate of legal absurdity that existed during the era of real socialism, when the communist authorities tried to regulate matters that did not require such regulation by means of manifestos or special resolutions. this has been a laughingstock for policy makers and public institutions alike, and i fear that the european parliament may suffer a similar fate. gender mainstreaming in every, literally every, element of parliamentary work, document or regulation is an absurdity that will undoubtedly increase bureaucracy but will not bring real results. but should we not strive for the opposite, where the sexes are no longer the subject of argument and controversy? tracing discrimination in every piece of legislation and organising ideological training for meps and staff will not improve the lot of women, but it will certainly improve the well-being of some of my colleagues on the left of the chamber. i voted against this ridiculous report.
in writing. ‒ the content of the document calls on member states to immediately establish safe and legal asylum routes, reform frontex, establish community-wide guidelines on women as part of wider migration and asylum reform, guarantee special accommodation for lgbti people, review the eu's policy on safe countries of origin for migrants, pay special attention to asylum applications by women and avoid detaining asylum seekers. the report pays particular attention to: the gender dimension in the determination of refugee status (preferential treatment for women refugees, both girls and boys, but no mention of young boys); the needs of women asylum seekers (specifically trained gender advisers); human trafficking and sexual violence, including free access to abortion; detention policies; social inclusion and integration. because of the nature of the document, i voted against. we need clear action to ensure equal treatment not only in terms of gender but also in terms of origin.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, around one million people arrived in europe. 38% of these are women and children, who make up one third of all migrants seeking asylum in the european union. women and girls have different needs than men. treatment varies from country to country. they are often discriminated against and subject to physical and sexual violence. improving the safety of women and girls in refugee situations, including asylum procedures, is not the only change in the european parliament's draft resolution on the situation of refugees and women seeking asylum in the eu. asylum policy and procedures should be gender-sensitive and take a personalised approach. the creation of safe and legal pathways to asylum will reduce the influence of smuggling networks and allow people to find refuge without risking their lives. the protection of refugees and women seeking asylum from any form of exploitation, abuse, violence or trafficking is also an important issue. the common european asylum system (ceas) established between member states is not uniform. legal, political and practical differences contribute to unequal treatment of women seeking protection in europe, and women's safety and respect for their rights cannot be mutually contradictory political objectives.
in writing. ‒ the honeyball report calls on member states to ensure that the rights of refugees are adequately protected, by providing them with separate accommodation, toilets and showers in reception centres, basic medical care, including for pregnant women, and legal advice. it condemns sexual violence against refugees, both in their country of origin and on their way to europe, and in reception centres already in the eu. condemns the forced prostitution of refugees (to pay for their journey), unregistered work, exploiting their desperation and need to raise funds for themselves and their children; calls for support in search and family reunification programmes. in addition to these undoubtedly correct points, the report contains many controversial points. the objections concern the report's content, which is not within the remit of the libe committee, which is responsible for asylum law, but also ideological political issues such as free access to abortion and an excessively wide range of budget-guaranteed goods and services that even the richest eu countries cannot afford. however, the main theme of the report - the situation of refugee women - is extremely important and urgent. i have had the opportunity to visit both reception centres and offices and organisations working for migrants and i believe that the women's issues are addressed in the report in a reasonable and appropriate way. that is why, despite voting against the articles with which i disagree, i supported the report in the final vote.
in writing. - the report is extremely controversial. the femm committee has proposed measures to improve the situation of migrant women and girls to be adopted by member states. one third of the reports go beyond the femm committee's remit and fall within the remit of the libe committee. the libe-related paragraphs call on member states to immediately establish safe and legal asylum routes, reform frontex, establish community-wide guidelines on women as part of broader migration and asylum reform, guarantee special accommodation for lgbti people, review the eu's policy on safe countries of origin for migrants, pay special attention to asylum applications by women and avoid detention of asylum seekers. the report focuses on: gender in refugee status determination (preferential treatment for women and girls, but no provision for young boys); the needs of women asylum seekers (specifically trained gender advisers); trafficking and sexual violence, including free access to abortion. that's why i couldn't support the report.
- i'm not going to let you go. a few words of truth, a man's words of truth: russia has entered syria and thanks to that we now have a ceasefire. let's hope the russians don't back down. and hopefully, the americans have learned what happens when dictatorships are overthrown in libya, in iraq, how many hundreds of thousands or millions of people have died as a result of overthrowing dictators. only a dictator can hold such a country in his hands, where there are alawites, christians, baha'is, druze, sikhs. the idea of elections in a situation where daesh is armed at the gates, where al nusra is fighting, is a complete absurdity to introduce democracy at such a moment. when there's a war, there must be a dictator. i've been talking to the kurds who came here, and i've been telling them that they have to make a deal with assad. they said no. then i went to damascus and i explained to assad's people that they should talk to the kurds. they said no. and now they're getting along. and therein lies the hope. but the problem is in turkey: the only thing the european union can do is to bribe the turks somehow so that they don't destroy this fragile agreement that is being made there in syria.
mr president, a ‘partial ceasefire’ was the best description i have heard of the deal: ‘partial’ in terms of the stakeholders included, as well as in the territorial scope. allow me to mention the firm results: increasing the role of al—assad, reinstating russia in international salons and bringing iran to the region. other effects are less obvious. unfortunately, daesh is going to operate beyond state borders and we were not notified about the organisation’s will to quit atrocities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, colleague, yes i share your view.
the war in syria has been going on for five years and has claimed over a quarter of a million lives. therefore, we have welcomed the ceasefire in this country on the terms agreed between the united states and russia. negotiations on a complete cessation of hostilities are being conducted under the auspices of the united nations. we are keenly interested in stabilising the region, as this is one of the keys to solving the most serious migration crisis the european union has ever faced. lasting peace in syria means, first and foremost, an end to the killing of civilians, including christians, and a real halt to the flow of migrants and a concrete possibility for them to return to their own country. we are therefore deeply concerned by the reports that despite the ceasefire, 135 people have been killed in a short time, and more than 550 in the territory controlled by the terrorists. the union must therefore continue to actively support the un peace efforts and provide the humanitarian aid that mrs mogherini spoke of today.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you criticize the european council, but ten months ago it was our governments who proposed the only logical mechanism that could have stopped this drama and allowed it to be resolved in one go. i'm talking about the fight against illegal human trafficking. is this struggle not a necessary mechanism to finally focus on helping those who can be helped, without making a big deal out of this problem, which is really becoming more insoluble every day?
ladies and gentlemen! all of us are patients at times, and some of us are doctors, and we know very well that in the pursuit of health, we must fight the causes of disease, not the effects. and we here have been trying to fight the effects for many, many months, and we're turning a blind eye to the causes of the disease. if we continue in this way, we will inevitably lead to the collapse of the european union, to the elimination of this project altogether. if we want the schengen project and the european union project, we must define what is europe and what is no longer europe and close the borders. and start defending against the influx, against this huge infection that we're infected with, and not nurture the disease. a disease is not something to be nurtured in our body, because that disease will destroy us. let's take care of our health. turkey can still use us and still get a bunch of billions of us to implement some of their own policies, and we do not know how to protect ourselves and close the external borders. we just need more radicalism.
madam president! fellow workers! this is the return of realism, not selfishness, but realism. last year, we had a bidding war, we had an open door policy, we were ready to take anyone. it was a mistake of irresponsibility. i fully support this return to realism. we must protect the external borders of the european union, we must help, but at the same time we must demand that greece adopt a responsible policy. the agreement with turkey must be implemented. finally, humanitarian aid must be given, first and foremost, to refugees, christians and people of other religions who are suffering because of the war in the middle east. let's not go back to the relocation mechanism as an arbitrary mechanism. it is risky and, in my opinion, also against the rules of international law, because you cannot place people against their will where they do not want to go. realism is not selfish. only a secure europe will be able to help others.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, please! i would like to start by noting the appeal made by the president of the european council, donald tusk, to economic migrants a few days ago: do not come to europe. the appeal is a breakthrough in the european union's policy in the face of a rising wave of migration that is likely to exceed two million this year. the last two years have shown that it is not possible to continue the policy of rescuing the world by relocating it to europe. we cannot afford such a policy, financially or socially. the solution to the migration crisis lies in foreign policy, in efforts to stabilise the situation in africa and the middle east so that refugees have somewhere to go back and in financial support for non-european countries that accept and rescue refugees from war-torn countries. the agreements reached at yesterday's summit with turkey offer hope that this shift in emphasis from domestic to foreign policy will continue. at the same time, they paint a picture of the real costs that we will have to pay to stop the flow of illegal immigrants. the cost is not just economic, because visa-free travel to turkey is a very high price to pay for solving only part of the problem. after all, europe will continue to accept refugees, albeit in a legal and controlled manner. and that regaining control is extremely important. it's very important from a security perspective, but it's also important from an effectiveness perspective, because to help refugees effectively, we need to have real, reliable data. we have to plan everything, organize everything. this control is also needed to make a list of tasks and to calculate the costs and to determine the possibilities of the european union, so that the lifeboat of the european union does not become too heavy.
this is the second debate today on immigration. this morning we heard from commissioner filippo grandi, the united nations high commissioner for refugees. but neither commissioner grandi nor vice-president timmermans said today the most important fact that we should not hide from our societies is that the growth rate of illegal immigration into europe is 1000%. at the beginning of this year, ten times as many illegal immigrants arrived as during the same period last year. the real reason these people are in danger is because we hear all the time in this room declarations about opening up legal immigration routes. they are under the illusion that until we solve the problems of these people that we can help today, we are actually able to encourage everyone to come to europe. it's totally irresponsible to these people. and it's important that those who make such statements are aware of the consequences.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to start by saying that under rule 140 of parliament’s rules of procedure, the president of the european parliament may sign an interinstitutional agreement after examination by parliament’s committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and after approval by parliament. it is my honour today to recommend to parliament the approval of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and its signature by the president. the current agreement on better law-making dates back to 2003. it was concluded before the 2004 enlargement of the european union when we still had a union of 15 member states, and well before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. parliament repeatedly called for the 2003 agreement to be renegotiated to take account of the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, to consolidate best practices and to bring the agreement up to date in line with the modern understanding of the better law-making agenda. so we took it as good news when, in january 2015, the then newly-elected juncker commission committed to presenting a proposal for a new interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions: parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. afco provided its contribution to the position of the european parliament in the negotiations, in april 2015, on the revision of the 2003 agreement. the conference of presidents then endorsed the president’s proposal that mr guy verhofstadt would be parliament’s lead negotiator, conducting the negotiations in close cooperation with afco and the committee on legal affairs (juri), and also reporting to the conference of presidents. finally, in december 2016, the conference of presidents endorsed the new agreement. and the resolution on the conclusion of this agreement on better law-making adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs, to be voted on tomorrow, expresses, in general terms, its view on the outcome of the negotiations. it also calls for the impact of the new agreement on the framework agreement and other related interinstitutional agreements to be ascertained with a view to simplifying the architecture of the numerous arrangements. it also identifies a range of issues that need further follow-up at technical or political level. it recommends the approval of the agreement and contains a mandate for afco to examine the extent to which amendments to or interpretations of the rules of procedure are necessary for the implementation of the agreement. let me mention just some elements of particular importance for the european parliament of the content of the new agreement. these include multiannual and annual programing; the commission’s follow-up to parliament’s legislative initiative requests and justifications for and consultations on envisaged withdrawals of legislative proposals; better law-making tools – which are important for a well-informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making process – and the impact assessment issue. we agreed that the impact assessment should be comprehensive and balanced and take into account the costs of not legislating. the independence and objectiveness of the new regulatory scrutiny vote is also an issue of particular relevance for us. the impact assessment should not, however, replace the political decision-making. gold-plating is also an important issue, in the context of avoiding over-regulation and administrative burden for citizens, administrations and businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses. with regard to delegated and implementing acts, we have moved forward, but parliament expects today a swift agreement between the three institutions on the appropriate criteria for delineating delegated acts and implementing acts and a prompt alignment of basic acts via the legal framework of the lisbon treaty. to conclude, having examined the content of the new interinstitutional agreement, afco has identified a number of issues that need further follow-up. these issues will be subject to further analysis in a joint initiative report drafted by afco and juri. we trust that the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making will be an important tool in establishing and developing a more open, more transparent relationship between the institutions with a view to delivering better law-making in the interest of the union’s citizens.
madam president! i'm not as enthusiastic as my predecessors. i'm glad we've reached an agreement, but my joy is limited. the opportunity to create a frugal regulation was not taken. i believe that the impact of regulation should be assessed at every stage of legislation, and that the competitiveness test should be more prominent. and finally, there is this contradiction: either we want subsidiarity, or we are still talking about something that i do not fully understand - the absence, the costs of the absence of the european union. the latter, however, is usually an invitation to centralism and overproduction of law. so let us take the principle of subsidiarity seriously, including in the european parliament itself. the rules committee is currently working on parliament's rules of procedure. i propose that the european parliament itself should apply the principle of subsidiarity more widely than it has done so far. so, yes to the agreement, but my assessment is not as enthusiastic as many of the previous ones.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i would like to join all those who say that we are not entirely satisfied with the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement that have been concluded. we expected more, but we only got as far as we could. today parliament is in a position to say yes or no to this agreement. well, we can say, of course we will say yes, because it's an absolutely necessary agreement. but we also say no to the possible closure of further negotiations, because they are necessary. we also want to say that we will expect that what has already been agreed in the interinstitutional agreement will in fact be fully respected by all three institutions. in this parliament, in this house, we discuss every year the report prepared by the legal affairs committee on better legislation, on the creation of better mechanisms, on the creation of a good european legal area. but i want to make it clear that good cooperation between institutions is not a sufficient element of good law-making. first of all, there has to be a good design on the table, and of course, a good end result. but here, it's different. so i'm very sorry that despite our efforts, the ppe group, but not only, in impact assessment we don't have an sme test. although we have a solemn assurance from the european commission that it will be consulting very widely. as for this consultation, the european commission will present a legislative proposal on the posting of workers shortly after the debate on this subject has been concluded. as far as i know, the consultation was never held, so either we're lying to each other, or we're working well together. i believe the latter is more certain.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to use my two minutes to address the two institutions which are here with us today. i would like to thank the council, represented by the dutch presidency, and the commission, represented by first vice-president timmermans, for their commitment to the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i am sure that if we work on implementation in close cooperation, if we commit ourselves to smart implementation, it will allow us to make maybe not the full extra mile, as you said, first vice-president, but as many colleagues have said today through implementation i think we can do more for better law-making. we can indeed, as you were trying to say, go beyond what is on the paper and the parliament is committed to it. we have heard that the council is starting the debate on implementation and will ensure the implementation of the agreement in close cooperation with the parliament and with the commission. and this is good news for us, but for us in the european parliament it is also important that we move forward on better law-making, while respecting equality between legislators. in the agreement, steps have been taken to improve the mutual exchange of views and information between the council and the european parliament. we need to develop this cooperation further. transparency of decision-making, although recognised in the agreement, requires further follow-up in the implementation phase. indeed it is up to us, as somebody said, to implement this interinstitutional agreement in a way that will multiply the value of this joint interinstitutional effort toward better law. so, once again thank you to all those who were involved in all the institutions, and i also have hope that tomorrow we will have a happy end to this exercise. and then, as you said first vice-president, it is just the beginning of a strong, joint effort on implementation.
in writing. the agreement between the commission, the council and parliament replaces the 2003 agreement and aims to streamline eu legislation. the aim is, inter alia, to achieve the intended effect of union legislation at the least cost and with the least administrative burden. the new interinstitutional agreement assumes that the law-making process will be open and transparent and based on the best information possible with the relevant participation of stakeholders. improving the existing interinstitutional agreement is particularly important at a time when the functioning of the eu institutions is increasingly being called into question and their distance from the problems of european citizens. in brussels, laws are often created that no one understands, and the benefits of these laws are often disputed by many. the agreement is intended to improve the whole policy cycle - planning, developing, adopting, implementing, assessing and modifying new legislation. this will be done, inter alia, through multiannual and annual work programming by the european commission, an impact assessment of the introduction or non-introduction of legislation at union level, and public consultation of stakeholders. i am very pleased that the final document also included the need for the institutions to assess the impact of the new eu law, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are the most sensitive to legal changes both negative and positive.
in writing. i believe that an effective agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission has a fundamental impact on every aspect of our lives in the european union. with the newly proposed rules, we are well on our way not only to reducing costs and administrative burdens, but also to increasing the openness and transparency of the law. the agreement is important because it covers the entire policy cycle, from the planning phase, through implementation, to evaluation and possible modifications. i think one of the most important tools we should use is public consultation, which allows interested parties to have their say on a given issue. active citizen participation in the eu law-making process, even before the european commission presents a new legislative proposal, significantly reduces the distance to the institutions and gives us practical guidance on the expectations and potential concerns of citizens, businesses and organisations.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for putting employment and social policy at the heart of the current european commission. these issues should be treated by us with particular attention and care. i wonder, however, why the commission has taken such a hasty decision to revise the directive on the posting of workers. less than two years ago, after long and difficult negotiations, all the political groups and member states adopted an implementing directive which, together with the current rules on posting, provides an appropriate compromise between worker protection and the freedom to provide services. i personally regret that the commission did not wait for the implementation of the implementing directive to take effect and ignored the position of many member states and the social partners on this issue. the commission considers that the change in the rules on posting is necessary to achieve greater social cohesion in the union and to ensure fair conditions of competition for businesses. however, in speaking of the need to equalise the burden of labour costs, the commission forgets that companies that post workers incur a number of costs that local companies do not have to bear. in this situation, we may be faced with discrimination against foreign operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which can effectively undermine the competitiveness of the single market. it should be remembered that posted workers are most likely to fill shortages in local labour markets, and the bulk of the posting - over 60% - is among western european union workers. barriers to service provision can lead to reduced posting, an increase in the grey area - we already have this - and consequently to less social cohesion. i very much hope that in the european parliament and in the council we will be able to reach a compromise which, as the commissioner said, will develop... (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am surprised that the commission, at a time of such difficulty as the european union is now going through, should be opening up a new front which could further divide the member states. restricting the free movement of services because this is the actual effect of the proposed amendments to the posting of workers directive will lead primarily to an increase in unemployment in the european union, including a large decline in employment in poland. consumers, who will be the first to be affected by the price increase, will also be the victims of the commission's proposal. who will benefit from these changes? the advocates of protectionism and restrictions of competition by administrative methods, which, especially in western europe, have recently been coming in, as we can see, if we look at the european road transport market. economic integration cannot be limited to the richest countries and create artificial barriers to cross-border entrepreneurship. these changes are a step which will perpetuate the division between rich and poor countries in the european union, a step which we must resolutely oppose.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. madam president! i'm glad we have the opportunity to talk today about the triple-a rating in social policy. it is important that the commissioner explains what the triple a rating means, what it aims to achieve and what mechanisms and legislative changes she plans to introduce. it's a very ambitious plan, but without the answers to these questions, we're not going to be able to implement it responsibly. we must remember that social policy has a real impact on the quality of life of citizens and requires a responsible and precise approach on the part of the member states and the eu institutions. our priority in the union should be to achieve the greatest possible social cohesion between member states. this will significantly improve the quality of life of citizens and allow for unfettered competition through better productivity, innovation. this is achieved by setting targets that take account of the different socioeconomic development of countries. we all know how necessary it is to take concrete action to create jobs and to encourage social policies which are friendly to citizens and responsive to their needs.
madam president! as early as october 2014, i welcomed president juncker's declaration, in which the idea of a 'triple a' social rating was first put forward. i am a strong supporter of the approach whereby harmonious economic development can only take place in parallel with actions aimed at improving the social and employment situation of the citizens of the european union. it should be noted, however, that such a social rating should be more than a general objective and a declaration of intent. i agree with the previous speakers that we need a concrete plan to achieve this "triple a". first, there is a need to develop clear, comprehensive and easily measurable indicators to monitor progress. i hope that the commission will soon present its proposal in this respect. i would also like to point out that the efforts to achieve the 'triple a' must from the outset include the european union and not just the economic and monetary union.
madam president! by taking part in this debate, i would like to support the rapporteur's view that the existing budgetary appropriations in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are insufficient to deal with the union's growing immigration crisis, low economic growth and high unemployment, especially among young people. the union's new commitments to turkey - now at €6 billion - the creation of trust funds for syria and africa, additional funds for greece, the commitment to rebuild the funds in the horizon 2020 and connecting europe programmes, and finally the liquidation of outstanding commitments - all of these, in my view, require a revision of the upper spending thresholds of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. at the same time, i would like to express my opposition to the rapporteur's position that he is in fact in favour of introducing a union tax, which would be the main revenue for the european union budget.
madam president! i would like to refer to two points raised in the report. firstly, it should be noted that 2017 is likely to be a year of significant acceleration in the implementation of the structural funds. although this has been said many times, i too would like to stress that it is therefore necessary to ensure that the necessary levels of payment appropriations are in place to avoid the problems of previous years with the backlogs that have arisen. secondly, the political developments indicate that the 2017 budget will certainly need to allocate significant resources to overcome the migration crisis. i believe that an emergency situation requires emergency measures and that funds should be allocated to stabilize the situation. at the same time, however, we must start to work on the integration of refugees already accepted in the european union and on channelling european union funds to countries outside our region in order to help stem migration towards the union.
in writing. a well-planned eu budget will be key to the eu's ability to respond and cope with the crises we face. i am thinking primarily of the migration crisis, but also of the volatile situation in the eu's eastern neighbourhood. i therefore draw particular attention to the need to set the appropriate payment ceiling in the 2017 budget. the late implementation of programmes under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 entails the risk of a gap between commitments and payments and of the accumulation of late payments in the second half of the mff 2014-2020, which inevitably leads to new difficulties for ongoing programmes. this is something we have already experienced in the 2007-2013 perspective and should avoid in the current financial perspective. i also stress the need to strive for the restoration of full employment, especially among young people, through the yei (youth employment initiative) and eu flagship programmes such as erasmus+. in this context, it is particularly important that programmes that invest in education and skills erasmus+, creative europe and europe for citizens are able to achieve their leap-frog speed to achieve the expected results.
i will start with the european council in march. the increase in the competitiveness of the european union is a very important issue for all of us, but i think that in the light of the forthcoming referendum in the united kingdom, this agenda is particularly important and i appreciate the work of the commission in preparing this council meeting. as for the eu-turkey summit, i am pleased that after many months, if not many years, the european union is now recognising turkey's geostrategic importance as a partner. naturally, this is happening in a situation of a serious migration crisis, and therefore turkey's negotiating position and our possibilities are also a little different than they could have been a few years ago. i don't think we should be afraid of what my colleagues call outsourcing or the fear of addiction right now. i think we should avoid that, but the issue of readmission in such a serious crisis is usually handled in partner countries. that's what's happening this time. there are various dangers involved in this arrangement, but they should... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i've heard very different evaluations of the agreement with turkey, from satisfaction to great criticism that it's like a dictate. but at the same time, can we manage this crisis without turkey's participation and cooperation? i have long said that it is necessary to establish cooperation with regional partners such as turkey, but also with the countries of north africa. at the same time, however, it is necessary to internationalise the process, including the involvement of the un. this is not only a regional problem, but also a global one, both in terms of consequences and in terms of the possibilities of countering the sources of migration. we agreed in september 2015 that we need to help in solidarity those countries that are under migration pressure. they, in turn, have committed to the refugee application procedure. we also wanted them to reinstate the protection of the external borders at the same time. it's not working, it's not working. nor are all countries meeting their commitments in this area, although the government of my country confirms these commitments. turkey can do a lot to combat the smuggling networks that make fortunes by feeding on migrants who are being smuggled into europe, while lying about the opportunities these migrants will find here. but when protecting europe's borders, we cannot rely solely on external partners. it is also a commitment on our part to restore control, to civilize the flow of migration. nor can we stop working to eliminate the causes of migration: primarily wars, attacks on civilians, war crimes and genocide. turkey is a big neighbor with great opportunities, but at the same time we have to talk about the challenges in terms of human rights, media freedom, which must be respected there. whatever the weight of the solutions we adopt, we must say that the union is a value in itself and that schengen and the union must be protected.
despite diplomatic pronouncements, the recent eu-turkey summit in brussels ended in a spectacular failure for the eu, which is being played for a fool by turkey. while european council president donald tusk tries to make a mockery of reality by saying 'the days of illegal immigration to europe are over' and european commission president jean-claude juncker claims the summit was a success, saying 'a real revolution', the european union has failed. the union is not sure of anything: it is asking turkey, and turkey, by luring the eu leaders, is raising the stakes. the last summit was a turkish bazaar, where billions of euros were traded, migration policy, visas and eu membership. in the end, turkey gets what it wants, and the union, with its back against the wall, has to agree. today, the dutch minister speaking for the presidency is talking about speeding up the one-for-one exchange. so i have a question: minister, tell me, how many more immigrants will come to the european union as a result of this exchange?
this week, we finally have some good news on the migration front, and also on the economic front, after many months of bad news that has left european institutions feeling helpless, weighing on their credibility, giving birth to populist movements. and indeed, the european union's immigration policy has been the victim of misunderstood threats. at first, they were located mainly on the eastern border, then they ignored the signals coming from the mediterranean when malta and lampedusa were isolated, and a serious human smuggling industry was born, and finally a major industry of the 21st century. finally, the vigilance was dormant as syrians gathered in camps in turkey, lebanon and jordan. so it's good that there's finally a common european response to the migration problem. this is a prerequisite for the survival of the schengen area. it is good that the difficult cooperation with turkey (difficult it was said but necessary) and the principles of aid to greece are being specified. and we have some chance of a political solution to the problems of syria, where the source of the threats lies. indeed, tusk, as head of the european council, said that the days of illegal immigration to europe were over. i hope he's right, because it was too expensive for all of us.
in writing. in previous meetings, the european council has repeatedly debated the protection of the eu's external borders, curbing illegal migration and guaranteeing the integrity of the schengen area. now, at last, concrete decisions are being made on this matter. the declaration on assistance in detecting, monitoring and controlling illegal border crossings in the aegean sea was also welcomed by nato. we are still waiting for a concrete action plan from nato in this respect. full and rapid implementation of the eu-turkey action plan is a priority for halting migration flows and combating traffickers' and smugglers' networks. although there has been some progress in some areas, the number of people crossing the border between turkey and greece illegally remains a concern. eu leaders agreed with turkish prime minister ahmet davutoğlu to work together more closely to achieve concrete results. turkey has committed to accepting all migrants entering greece and then to returning those who do not need international protection. the migration crisis has not been solved yet. we now expect, among other things, to speed up the implementation of the action plan on visa liberalisation and other proposals requiring clarification before the next european council.
in writing. the agreement with turkey on migrants is a landmark step in eu policy in the face of the growing migration crisis, as was donald tusk's appeal to economic migrants: do not come to europe. the agreement provides for an additional eur 3 billion (totalling eur 2 billion) to be provided by the eu to turkey to maintain refugee camps in turkey and to introduce them to the turkish labour market. in addition, and i consider these agreements to be key the eu will open legal migration channels for asylum seekers in return for curbing illegal migration. this particular exchange is designed to regain control of the crisis and stop the criminal activities of the traffickers, smugglers and forgers of documents who have created a lucrative and inhuman empire of pathological business more lucrative than the arms or drug trade. the eu is therefore counting on stopping the illegal flow of migrants; in return, it will accept war refugees in a legal and controlled manner and introduce visa-free travel at the eu-turkey border for eu and turkish citizens. of course, stopping illegal migration is only part of the solution, which must also include checks at the eu's external borders, biometric passports, effective information exchange within the eu and other elements of control, complemented by active action to integrate migrants and respect the european value system by all eu citizens and residents.
in writing. ‒ given the orderly nature of the document, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ given the nature of the document, which is limited to merely harmonising existing legal texts without changing them in substance, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents in accordance with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive and the 2014 oecd global standards. this will take place from 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. similar updates have been made to the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino, and the monaco agreement will also be updated. the report was drawn up under the simplified procedure (rule 50). this update is to be welcomed as the agreement has been brought into line with current eu standards and oecd global standards, without applying double standards with regard to the exchange of information. i voted in favour of the document under discussion.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents in accordance with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive (dac2) and the 2014 oecd global standards. this will take place from 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. similar updates have been made to the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino, and the monaco agreement will also be updated. the report was drawn up under the simplified procedure (rule 50). welcomes this update as the agreement has been brought into line with current eu standards and oecd global standards, without applying double standards in terms of information exchange. the amendments include, for example, a more detailed set of data protection provisions, provisions on the exchange of information on request following the oecd model and a mechanism for the rapid adoption of amendments to the oecd global standard with the agreement of the other party to the agreement. the information to be exchanged concerns not only income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with the italian candidate fausto parente. the ecr group supported his candidacy as the candidate had demonstrated the relevant competence and had a long experience of working for the competent national authority (ivass italian insurance supervisory authority). the candidate has been involved in eiopa since its establishment and therefore has a broad knowledge of the functioning of the european office and the current thematic areas on the agenda. in light of mr. parente's experience, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the directive is to provide procedural guarantees to children (i.e. persons under the age of 18) who are suspected or accused of committing an offence in an eu member state. children's rights vary widely across the eu, with people under 18 often suspected or accused of a crime in a country other than their country of origin, or being questioned in that country. the aim of the directive is to introduce basic rules in this area and to establish fundamental rights throughout the eu, as well as to improve cross-border cooperation in criminal investigations. this directive will provide additional safeguards to those already applicable to adult suspects and accused persons in criminal matters. the main provision of that directive concerns the assistance of a lawyer. member states should ensure that the child is assisted by a lawyer, providing legal aid to that end where necessary. in view of the importance of the matter, i voted in favour of the above document.
in writing. ‒ more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu every year, representing 12% of all those who are subject to criminal proceedings in the union. beyond the figures themselves, there are major differences in the treatment of children under criminal proceedings in the member states. the right to a fair trial at all stages of the proceedings is a fundamental right which should be enjoyed by all persons, regardless of age. unfortunately, this right is treated differently in many eu countries. currently, only 6 member states have prosecutors specialising in child cases, while 9 member states do not even have specialised courts. the commission's proposal for a directive, which aims to define a limited but essential set of rights for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, is clearly a step in the right direction. the parliament's report rightly points out the need to include in the directive the right to compulsory legal aid, closely linked to the right to free legal aid, the right to individual assessment, the organisation of hearings, the admission of children to proceedings, special training for judges, etc. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the ep's report and i believe that the directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings will be adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ section 3 of the eu budget consists of the commission's activities and administrative expenditure, which accounts for around 95% of the budget. the report sets out parliament's political priorities for 2017, in the form of guidelines, ahead of the commission's publication of the working budget in may. the report focuses on the eu budget's ability to cope with the crises facing the eu. given the emphasis on supporting jobs, growth and competitiveness and on using the budget in areas that provide real added value for the eu, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ for 2017, expenditure on commitments is set at eur 137.1 billion and payments at eur 126.8 billion. the existing budgetary allocations in the mff for 2014-2020 are insufficient to deal with the union's worsening immigration crisis, low economic growth and high unemployment, especially among young people. the eu's commitments to turkey (up to €6 billion since the last eu-turkey summit), the creation of trust funds for syria and africa, partly to be funded from the eu budget, additional funds for greece, which is facing further waves of migrants, the commitment to rebuild the funds in the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes following their earlier cuts to the european fund for strategic investments, all require a revision of the 2014-2020 mff ceilings. i am opposed to the rapporteur's position that the introduction of a union tax would be the main revenue for the eu budget, instead of the current contributions which are mainly dependent on the gnp (gross national income) of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission is a decisive step forward in the relationship between the european institutions that make european law. this agreement will further enhance these relations, both in terms of speeding up legislative work and in terms of cooperation between the institutions in the legislative process itself. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the 'better lawmaking' instrument is an important tool for streamlining the eu legislative process, for transposing the law in the member states and for ensuring that the law is respected under articles 258 and 260 tfeu. it needs to be more transparent and open to the needs of the citizens of the union in order to work. to this end, a new interinstitutional agreement will be established, including a new better regulation agreement, which will ensure that eu rules are respected with the least possible administrative burden. it assumes that policy decisions are developed and taken in an open and transparent manner, based on accurate information with the relevant stakeholder involvement. the programme covers all the legislative stages: planning, adoption, implementation, application and evaluation of the impact of the law. at each of these stages, specific rules and procedures would be in place to ensure that the regulation is appropriate. it should be borne in mind that delays and irregularities in transposition and the incorrect application of eu law lead to inconsistencies between member states and consequently negatively affect citizens. i therefore welcome the outcome of the vote, which underlines the need to continuously improve the eu's legislative process.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the tobacco agreement (the pmi agreement) is drawn up on the basis of oral questions from the political groups. there are currently four cooperation agreements between eu member states: philip morris international (pmi), japan tobacco international (jti), imperial tobacco limited (itl) and british american tobacco (bat). the agreement with pmi expires in july 2016. the european commission has consistently delayed the publication of its assessment of the pmi agreement. the ecr group therefore submitted an oral question on, inter alia, the state of play and timetable of the negotiations and stressed that the european parliament should be kept regularly informed. in particular, the european parliament should be informed of the main results achieved under the existing agreements with tobacco manufacturers and whether the commission intends to renew existing agreements or to conclude new ones. the commission's technical assessment was only published on 24 february. the main ideas of the document, namely the protection of the union's financial interests, the contribution of the pmi agreement to the fight against illicit trade in the past and the possible criminal consequences of smuggling, led me to vote in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the fight against illicit cigarette trade is very important for the european market, because we do not know what ingredients are in these cigarettes and, in addition, we lose budget revenues. experience so far shows that the arrangements in place at present, which were signed back in 2004, have worked. the agreement with pmi has so far significantly reduced smuggling of products, but it has also provided a system for tracing the origin of cigarettes. i think that this agreement should be extended and for these reasons i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in the late 1990s, in response to the huge growth in the illicit trade in tobacco products, the european commission decided to sign agreements to combat this practice with the four largest tobacco companies. the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) signed in 2004 will expire in july 2005. the contract assumptions were undoubtedly met, as the smuggling of pmi products was reduced by 85%. however, overall illicit trade has not decreased and pmi products have been replaced by non-brand cigarettes. the funds that pmi transferred to the european commission and member states under the contract were intended to effectively combat cigarette smuggling, for example by purchasing specialised equipment. moreover, pmi provided its own codentify tracing system, which made the work of customs officers much easier. since the signing of the pmi agreement, the eu has adopted a tobacco products directive and a protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control, which can effectively replace it. unfortunately, they will only be fully operational from 2019 (directive) and 202223 (convention). given the need to find an effective solution to the legal gap that will arise between 2016 and 2019, when customs officers will have to work without pmi assistance, i have decided to vote against the proposed draft resolution.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in eritrea (2016/2568 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! eritrea's independence in 1993 gave hope that the new state would be democratic. the 1997 constitution established the rule of law and respect for human rights. unfortunately, it never came to life, and the country has never held an election - it is totalitarianally ruled by isaias afwerka. human rights violations, the difficult political and humanitarian situation, including the drought that has struck the country, have led to mass emigration. the un estimates that each month more than 5,000 people flee to neighboring countries, including europe. the establishment of a €200 million national recovery programme under the european development fund is only one step to help the people of this country, albeit in the short term. it may help to reduce poverty, but it will not solve all the problems that exist there. major structural reforms are necessary to put eritrea on a sustainable development path.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! you're probably right when you say that aid to eritrea is going to be misdirected, right? it's not going where it's supposed to go, and it's not going to be of any benefit to society. so i would ask for conclusions, for positive ideas: what is the new structure of aid to eritrea going to look like, how to control spending if it is being wasted? it is better to point out positive solutions than to criticize. i wonder what your idea is of this aid and how to structure it.
i welcome the delegation of the independent trade union solidarity lower silesia, with its chairman kazimierz kimso. welcome to the solidarity team.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as i already said earlier during this debate, we are seriously concerned by the gross human rights violations in this country and we do address human rights issues at all meetings with ministers and in the article 8 political dialogue meetings with the government. we are also addressing these issues in international fora and notably at the human rights council of the united nations. under the 11th edf national indicative programme (nip), the eu will support the implementation of recommendations made to eritrea under the un-led universal periodic review (upr). it will allow the eu to deepen the dialogue on human rights with the government of eritrea. the eu is looking for a partnership with eritrea in a more-for-more spirit. this is conditionality. to this effect, the eu has addressed with the government of eritrea the necessity for our cooperation to be accompanied by action on reforms. these reforms must relate to the effective implementation of the upr recommendations, the improvement of economic governance, as well as reform of the national service. under the nip for eritrea for the period 2016-2020, the intervention sectors are, amongst others, community-based energy projects as a prerequisite for increasing food security and agriculture productivity. economic governance will also be addressed to create good conditions for sustainable economic growth. eu-funded interventions will support the population with the objective of improving livelihoods and reducing poverty. finally, measures to improve the human rights situation in eritrea are also foreseen. the eu will support, and continue to support, implementation of the recommendations made to eritrea under the un-led universal periodic review. now, development assistance – and i noted many remarks about this specific issue – is implemented on the basis of projects that are tailor-made to address the needs of the population in eritrea: to create jobs, reduce poverty. there is no support to the central government. the process of approving and implementing eu projects is carried out transparently, following eu and european development fund rules at all stages. furthermore, projects are being strictly monitored, following the eu financial and auditing regulations. the benefit of the funding – this was raised several times – will be for the eritrean people. let me stress it once more: there is no such thing as support to the central government. i am conscious, as was pointed out, of the very difficult political context in which we are operating when engaging with eritrea. we will review our engagement at regular intervals, taking stock of how far we have progressed and how serious the government is in reforming its system. the high representative, ms mogherini, will report on such progress, or lack of it, to you. so it is not at all my intention to ignore parliament. be assured that we will continue to follow very closely the development of the human rights situation in eritrea and the country’s role in the region. as i said at the beginning, we engage with eritrea for the sake of its people. one thing is sure: further isolation will not help the eritrean people.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. eritrea is near the bottom of the world in terms of social development indicators, and there are many examples of human rights violations that are of particular concern. these factors have made eritreans the fourth largest group of refugees fleeing poverty and oppression to europe. the european union recently provided eur 200 million in long-term aid to eritrea. of course, this money can help create new jobs and improve the economic situation of the country, but this should be done on a conditional basis to ensure that european money does not support the activities of an authoritarian regime. and i'm also afraid that without a significant improvement in human rights, we're not going to be able to stop the flow of refugees from eritrea in a satisfactory way. therefore, i believe that we should continue to exert strong pressure on the authorities of this country to start implementing democratic reforms, ensure respect for human rights and implement the recommendations of the un universal periodic review of 2014.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2015/2895 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, thank you for the good report for minister weigl. secondly, i highly appreciate what commissioner hahn is doing on this gradual - perhaps not very rapid, but there are no other possibilities - enlargement of the european union. i'm all for expansion. i think macedonia - well, all right, the former yugoslav federal republic of macedonia, let it be - is part of the european cultural heritage, part of the european civilization. and skopje's place, or maybe i'll say it more neutrally, is in the european union. i would not like the problems with democratic freedoms to be used as an excuse, i stress as an excuse to slow down this march of skopje to the european union. i think we should support the pro-european efforts of this nation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i welcome the reports by mrs grossetête and mr tănăsescu and i appraise the work and the atmosphere of compromise. when we talk about a veterinary medicinal product, i am thinking in particular of work that has involved a difficult and complex process, aimed not only at the broadly understood safety and protection of animals, as the report's content indicates in the first place, but also at the process of protecting human health, food safety and numerous aspects of environmental protection. in my opinion, security should be a priority, and i'm talking about different aspects of security. firstly, a medicine that is safe and effective for the animal, safe for the human being who uses the medicine for the animal, safe for the human being who consumes the food, or finally safe for the human being who is the patient, especially when we have to limit the growth of antibiotic resistance; also a medicine that is safe for the environment. i strongly support the cascading mechanisms that aim to reduce the use and use of antibiotics in particular. a clear distinction should be made between treatment, metaphylaxis and antibiotic prophylaxis, which is forbidden in this document and very well. legal and commercial issues were also settled. many concerns were raised about the licensing of medicines and the criteria for advertising. i think these are serious challenges that are not just for veterinary medicines. product promotion and distribution, especially via the internet, is a major challenge. we must also keep in mind the important issue of data protection, as poor data protection legislation can stifle the innovation that is so necessary in this field. as a doctor, i have a different view on one point: i cannot agree to the specific amendments proposed to this report. i am particularly concerned about the numerous references to so-called homeopathic remedies. i have the impression that ideological considerations were more important than scientific ones. science has not provided clear evidence to support the efficacy of homeopathic medicines in animals. in humans, it's the placebo effect or belief that the medicine works. whether a similar mechanism works in animals, i don't know, but i seriously doubt it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. both institutions are currently the subject of this institution, because the ema is the executive arm of the european commission. i understand that there should be some unity in the veterinary medicinal product and in the human medicinal product, such proposals are made and in many countries there are agencies which deal with both human and animal medicines. because the coincidence, the equality of these events, their interactions, their effects are unambiguous. i'll take that offer.
in writing. the updating of legislation on veterinary medicinal products is necessary because the demand for new and more effective medicines is increasing and their availability and prices often prevent the farmer from obtaining the product he needs at the moment. the european commission is working to improve access to medicines, improve the functioning of the internal market for medicines (while reducing the administrative burden associated with pharmacovigilance) and tackle the growing problem of antibiotic resistance. i fully support all these measures, of course, but there should be precise and clear provisions on certain issues in the new legislation. the text lacks a proper definition of 'responsible use of veterinary medicinal products' and should cover all parties involved in a comprehensive way, from pharmaceutical companies to veterinarians and farmers. in addition, the sale of antibiotics for animals via the internet (the solution proposed by the commission to the issue of availability) should be prohibited and only over-the-counter medicines should be allowed. the biggest problem is the increasing resistance of animals, including humans, to antibiotics. animal manure is a source of antimicrobial resistant bacteria in soil and water, posing a risk to the environment and to humans. it is therefore imperative that any abuse of antibiotics be stopped and that they not be administered without a reliable diagnosis and only after other possibilities for help have been eliminated.
mr president, commissioner, those who warn us of possible danger have always been important to society. their role is important, especially nowadays when we have a lot of information sources and many communication channels. if the whistle-blowers warn us about wrongdoings, corruption, illegal actions and the breaking of the law, they have a similar function to journalists warning us via the media. in this sense, their role for a democratic society is positive. as stated in the eu anti-corruption report, whistle-blowing faces a difficulty as there is a reluctance to act against one’s own organisation due to the fear of retaliation. whistle-blowers are often acting according to their conscience, but outside or against a legal framework. they are forced to break the law to act according to their moral compass. in this role, they are contributing to the democracy mechanisms and helping to reveal criminal activities, for instance corruption, but it should not lead to the destruction of the state and in functions. in democratic societies, for instance, investigative journalists have rights and are protected. that is why i believe we need to develop our discussion on whistle-blowers. we need to raise awareness of the problem, continue efforts on finding and implementing a better framework for protecting their rights as persons, as professionals. some countries in europe have done so in an advanced way, so this is a duty for all member states.
mr. chairman, please! due to the time limit, just a few questions. in theory, the deposit guarantee scheme initiative is a logical consequence of the work on the next elements of the banking union from the euro area's point of view. however, a number of doubts are raised, inter alia, by the planned rules for the collection of contributions to the joint deposit guarantee fund. it is very likely that the costs of creating this system will be borne by the institution's customers. from the perspective of my country, poland, as a country with a significant share of foreign capital in the internal financial market, i consider the actions of these authorities to be unfavourable in this situation. the customers of these banks will bear the costs of creating the system, even though poland is not a member of the banking union. and there is no guarantee that the deposit guarantee scheme will reduce the risk of costs resulting from mismanagement and bank failures in other countries.
mr president, the banking union has been, in my view, the most important european project to have emerged from our common european reflection on the crisis. it allows us to leave the bailout era and enter a bail-in universe but, with this shift, new obligations and conditions for debt and capital-holders are being created. there has been some time to adapt to these changes but they appear not to have been fully assimilated yet. the immediate challenge is therefore to communicate better on the new regime to investors and other market participants. in particular, i believe retail investors, who are likely to be the most vulnerable, should reach a better understanding of their rights and obligations under the bail-in regime. we can see also wide divergences today in the way the brrd has been implemented, in particular as regards the provisions relating to the order in which the creditors of a bank in resolution are repaid. the system would gain in efficiency, credibility and predictability, and we would move closer to a level playing field, if more harmonisation was brought into this area.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i will not speak about the situation in latvia, as president ždanoka does, but i want to talk about kazakhstan. i have been to this country seven times, not only in the capital (first it was alma-ata, now almaty; now it is astana), but i have driven 2,000 kilometers by car. i think i know the country and generally it would be good if we spoke when we know the specifics of the country. we had a debate the other day about refugees. i've been in refugee camps, so i know what i'm talking about. the situation in the region is specific: freedom of speech and freedom of the media are perceived differently there than they should be according to our european standards. the amendment should therefore be adopted, but this resolution also states that kazakhstan is our very important strategic partner.
in writing. kazakhstan is a member of the un, the osce, the council of europe's venice commission and a party to the eu's enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which not only covers trade but also places a strong emphasis on democracy, the rule of law, the protection of fundamental rights and the independence of the judiciary. despite all the international commitments and standards that a sovereign state has voluntarily accepted, respect for democracy and human rights in kazakhstan is a matter of concern to the international community. the detention of journalists, bloggers and human rights defenders without due process violates the foundations of democracy. without independent media, there is no rule of law. the political situation must be judged by the actions, not the declarations of the rulers. already in june 2008 and again in may 2009, in connection with kazakhstan's upcoming chairmanship of the osce, the foreign minister of kazakhstan committed to improving the human rights situation in kazakhstan. in the eight years since, the only things that have changed are the names of the political prisoners and those who have been arrested, as exemplified by the european parliament's resolutions, the reports of international organizations and the reports of persecuted citizens. it is time to take real measures to enforce the reforms we have declared.
madam president! the unstable political and humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of the congo calls into question the peaceful and democratic conduct of the forthcoming elections. there was no local election last fall. the november election could mean the end of 19 years of rule by the kabyle family. meanwhile, the un reports arrests of opposition party members, and peaceful demonstrations are dispersed by police and security forces. the opposition also points to the current president's numerous efforts to delay elections and stay in power, and the huge mineral resources, instead of being a driving force of the economy, become a source of corruption and human rights violations. it is important that the european union, the un and the african union put diplomatic pressure on the authorities of the country and that the new electoral commission, also composed of members of the opposition and civil society, is able to conduct the november elections efficiently and effectively.
in writing. ‒ the june 2015 terrorist attack in sousse has triggered a debate in the eu on the need to continue to support tunisia's political and economic transformation in a concrete and targeted way, through actions that can be effective in the short term. the european commission is proposing a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union in the form of autonomous trade measures. olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural product exported to the eu, and the olive oil sector is an important part of the national economy providing direct and indirect employment for over one million people, representing a fifth of employment in the entire agricultural sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the duty rate applicable to the imports of the product concerned from the prc. given that the aim of these measures is to support the economy and thus to sustain the ongoing transformation in tunisia, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in september 2014, the commission published a new draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products. the draft completely restructures the existing rules on veterinary medicinal products. it is intended to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution, pharmacovigilance and use of veterinary medicinal products. a number of tools and actions have been developed, including the collection of data by member states on the use of antimicrobials, the establishment of a list of antimicrobials to be reserved for the treatment of certain human infections with a view to maintaining the efficacy of certain active substances in humans, the prohibition of the routine use of antimicrobials for prophylaxis and strict conditions for ad hoc prophylaxis and metaphylaxis and minimum requirements for veterinary prescription, and the introduction of a number of categories of veterinary medicinal products (having anabolic, anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic (other than anti-viral), anti-cancer, hormonal or psychotropic properties or containing such substances) which can only be prescribed by a veterinarian. i voted in favour of the document in question.
in writing. ‒ the world is slowly moving towards a post-antibiotic era. first, we need to address the problem of antibiotic resistance (amr) in livestock. the prophylactic use of antibiotics should be discontinued and the use of medically critical antibiotics in animals should be prohibited. the report presented is designed to highlight the role of veterinarians and other veterinary staff as specialists in this field by facilitating their work rather than imposing additional burdens and regulation on the profession. it is also necessary to improve the quality of treatment and to reduce the use of antibiotics that have not been authorised for sale, as well as to ensure the availability of medicines. the reform of the veterinary medicines legislation is of the utmost importance for strengthening the single market in this sector, which is why i have decided to support the report presented.
in writing. ‒ this report is closely linked to the report on veterinary medicinal products. the commission has decided to bring together the provisions on veterinary medicinal products in a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products, repealing and replacing the veterinary medicinal products directive and amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004. this report is necessary in order to remove all references to veterinary medicinal products and thus to completely separate the rules on veterinary medicinal products from those on medicinal products for human use. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to highlight the importance of big data (data sets that are so large or complex that traditional data processing applications are inadequate) for the digital single market and the european economy. the resolution covers the following key areas related to big data: data protection, broadband and data processing infrastructure, cloud computing, brain drain, e-services, etc. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the emergence of a data-driven economy is a key element of the digital single market strategy, which will give europe a chance to regain competitiveness in high-tech sectors, and will also help to accelerate economic recovery, investment for growth and innovation in all sectors. the benefits of a data-driven economy at national and european level will have a huge impact on citizens and businesses. they are estimated to generate an additional gdp growth of 1,9% by 2020. moreover, building an ecosystem conducive to ict development, through investment in broadband networks, cloud computing and the 'internet of things', will also require the training of skilled workers with advanced skills, which will lead to the creation of a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years. moreover, the technology of big data itself creates new opportunities for consumers (e.g. in terms of convenience, efficiency and savings), businesses (industry 4.0) and administrations (e-government), as well as in the fields of housing (smart cities), science, medicine (mhealth), disaster response and crime prevention. given the crucial importance of the development of the data-driven economy for the creation of the digital single market, i decided to support the proposed resolution.
in writing. ‒ the digital revolution and the widespread availability of the internet are reshaping the global economy, in which data is now a vital part of life. europe is not a leader today in new technologies or innovation in the digital economy, but we have many assets that make us a serious player. to realise our full potential, we need to close the development gaps that still exist between the different regions of the eu more effectively and more quickly. investments in broadband internet should be one of the priorities in all european spending strategies. we need to give young people in all member states the chance to gain skills and develop their talents, which they will use in the future in the form of patents and new business models. the data economy also represents a huge opportunity for smes, which can use digital technology to reach new customers, raise investment funds and share experiences with partners around the world. of course, while taking all the necessary measures, we cannot afford to abandon the highest standards of data protection, especially for personal and financial data. managing large data sets is a task that requires expertise and a high level of responsibility; we should work together to achieve high standards in both areas. i believe that this report and the solutions it proposes will help.
in writing. ‒ eritrea gained independence in 1991, and a new constitution was approved and ratified in 1997, guaranteeing full respect for human rights but has not yet entered into force. a two-and-a-half-year border conflict with ethiopia, which erupted in 1998, was resolved under un auspices in december 2000. isaias afwerki is the only president of eritrea to date, since 1993; his governments, especially since 2001, have assumed a highly autocratic and repressive character. they have led to a significant militarization of society by introducing an unpopular program of compulsory military service, sometimes indefinitely. the military service period, officially 16 months, can be extended during a "national crisis". in addition, tens of thousands of eritreans continue to be held in more than 300 locations across the country without charge or trial, in life-threatening conditions. these places are routinely used for torture. many priests, pastors, and other church leaders are under house arrest or imprisonment. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ thousands of people are fleeing eritrea every month because of the regime in that country. many of them come to europe looking for help and support. it is important that european development aid does not help an authoritarian regime, but a poor and war-torn society. under the 11th european development fund, over €200 million will be transferred to eritrea in the coming years. there are legitimate concerns that much of this money will be spent by the ruling authoritarian regime to pacify the civilian population. the ep report rightly emphasises that democratic governance, the building of transparent and efficient public institutions and the protection of human rights should form the basis for the union's financial support. it seems that when deciding to transfer development funds to eritrea, the commission forgot about this, focusing solely on supporting the energy sector. the european parliament's previous calls for the commission to change its position have been ignored, which is why the ep's adoption of a resolution on the situation in eritrea is so important. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
in writing. ‒ a report is prepared annually on the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia towards integration with the european union. it covers a wide range of areas of the country's internal and external policy, including the current political crisis and the way forward; the issue of early elections in line with international standards and osce/odihr recommendations; the need for judicial reform, the elimination of discrimination and the achievement of cohesion between different ethnic, national and religious communities; the lack of media freedom and the need for urgent reform of public media ensuring independent institutional regulation. after reviewing the document, i voted in favor of it.
in writing. ‒ the annual progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia's integration with the european union analyses many areas of the country's internal and external policies, including: the current political crisis and the way forward, issues of early elections in line with international standards and osce/odihr recommendations. the report also covers the full implementation of the urgent priorities and the reporting by the commission to parliament and the council after the early elections; the need for judicial reform; the elimination of discrimination and the achievement of cohesion between different ethnic, national and religious communities; the lack of media freedom and the need for urgent reform of the public media to ensure an independent regulatory institution; regional cooperation and the strengthening of good neighbourly relations; progress in resolving the 'name problem' with greece; the conclusion of the negotiations on the treaty of friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation with bulgaria and the need to improve the alignment of the eu's foreign policy. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the prospect of eu membership is a major incentive for further reforms, especially in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, and a source of hope for a prosperous future for young generations. macedonia has been a candidate country for 10 years and, despite improvements in its internal situation in recent years, it still faces many economic, social and political problems. the last year has seen a significant political crisis, which has led to the boycott of the national parliament by the main opposition party and a further decline in confidence in public institutions. it is now necessary to take action to restore stability and strengthen public confidence in the authorities. the ep report rightly points to the need for cooperation between the eu and macedonia in the face of the unprecedented number of refugees moving through the country. in addition, attention was drawn to the eu's support for the organisation of the parliamentary elections in june this year and for the implementation of priorities for urgent systemic reforms. i have decided to vote in favour of the report and i believe that steps will be taken to stabilise the country so that macedonia can start the process of accession to the european union as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union towards the balkan countries is a natural process that can bring many benefits to both sides. however, this year's progress report on the implementation of the necessary reforms in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia shows that the road to accession for this particular country is still very long. despite some successes, it is difficult to assess clearly the progress made by macedonia in the fight against corruption, the lack of sufficient democratic procedures, ineffective control over the special services or the need to regulate ethnic relations on the basis of partnership and harmonious coexistence. much remains to be done in the difficult relationship with greece, the lasting settlement of which is a necessary condition for macedonia's closer integration with the eu. however, one cannot disagree with the theses of this report, which emphasises the efforts and commitment of the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the fight against the unprecedented immigration crisis that has hit europe in recent months. the uncontrolled wave of migrants that has quickly reached macedonia's borders is a challenge beyond the capacity of the local authorities. the eu should appreciate the efforts and responsibility of the macedonian government in this difficult situation and give it real support, including through financial resources for training and equipping the macedonian border services. i believe that the report presented is factual and correctly assesses the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution welcomes the progress made in the negotiations, noting that 22 chapters have been opened so far, two of which have been provisionally closed. the resolution welcomes the reforms in a number of areas, including public administration, the economy and the rights of persons with disabilities. however, it also expressed concern at the deeply polarized internal atmosphere in the country and called for steps to be taken to improve the quality of legislation and for further efforts to be made to fight corruption. the text welcomes the decision of the nato foreign ministers to invite montenegro to join the alliance and to promote a swift and effective negotiation process. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the annual resolution welcomes the progress made in the negotiations, noting that twenty-two chapters have been opened so far, two of which have been provisionally closed. the resolution welcomes the country's reforms in a number of areas, including public administration, the economy and the rights of persons with disabilities. however, it is concerned about the deeply polarized internal atmosphere in the country and calls for steps to be taken to improve the quality of legislation and for further efforts to be made to combat corruption. the resolution welcomes the decision of the nato foreign ministers to invite montenegro to join the alliance and to promote a swift and effective negotiation process. it also notes the growing terrorist threat from jihadist organisations and welcomes the swift action taken by the government to combat it. in total, 155 amendments were submitted to this report. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the annual report focuses on the situation in the banking union, which is based on three pillars: supervision, resolution and harmonised deposit guarantee. although the banking union has brought improvements in the resolution of banks, much work remains to be done to implement a system of remedial action against banks in the eu. the brrd is not yet fully implemented and banks and governments are still dependent on each other for solvency. the report also touches, unfortunately only in passing, on the need to abolish the zero risk weight for bonds. the report highlights the need for 'a uniform and high level of protection for deposits, regardless of their location'. however, the standardisation of protection against risks to deposits will redistribute risk across the eu, which may lead to a lower level of protection for deposits in some countries while taking advantage of others. with that in mind, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is crucial for ensuring stability and restoring confidence in banks in the euro area, strengthening financial integration, reducing risks in the european banking system and temptations to abuse, and contributing to the disconnection between governments and banks. the ep's report on the banking union (bu) rightly highlights the benefits of its creation and the problems the bu continues to face, such as the european central bank's failure to sufficiently apply the principle of proportionality. the report focuses on the three pillars of the ssm: the single supervisory mechanism, the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the deposit protection. particular attention was paid to the new third pillar of the db, which is the convergence of national deposit guarantee schemes, which had not been coordinated until now. i am pleased that the annual report addresses the issues of the ssm, which has proved to be a success since its establishment, both in terms of its operation and the quality of its supervision.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the functioning of the banking union. the commission also noted that the bank of greece had not provided any information on the financial situation of the bank of greece during the period considered. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to achieve its objectives. bank failures have declined, not only for the economy, but also for bank customers, which is practically all europeans. the public availability of information on the functioning of banks is improving. the strengthening of the european central bank's powers is also important, as it is now able to deal more quickly and effectively with the various problems facing the financial sector. common european-level rules for the assessment of banks are therefore increasingly effective.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr czesław siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the price crisis in the european pigmeat sector (o-000020/2016) (2016/2581 ((rsp)) (b8-0118/2016).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we are asking an important question because the problem is extremely difficult, very visible on the pigmeat agricultural market in the european union, very felt by pig producers. we know that the global trends are that food prices have been falling for the last four years. in 2015, this decrease in world prices reached 15%, but the common agricultural policy has had the advantage, the value, of stabilising agricultural markets, stabilising farmers' incomes, but also stabilising the relationship between supply and demand. we know that the achievements of the cap are appreciated by the european public, that they are appreciated by farmers too, but the situation has become extremely difficult and complex. we are aware that the common agricultural policy is increasingly dependent on the external dimension and on what is happening on world markets. i'm talking about what i mentioned earlier, which is the global food price. i'm going to ask you a question that you're familiar with. the still-existing russian embargo on food imports has closed the largest eu market for pig farmers, the pork sector, which has become a major additional problem to those mentioned above. this leads to strong downward price pressures that go beyond the normal cyclical fluctuations in the pigmeat sector. so-called "swine" cycles are a normal thing, but what's happening is beyond the crisis that has occurred before. the average value of e-grade pig carcasses in december alone fell by 9%. remember, december was the pre-christmas season, and so the market was a time of increased shopping. many union farmers produce pigs below their production costs. the interest in the latest aid scheme for private storage is much higher than in the previous schemes. however, support for private storage may not be sufficient to stabilise prices and strengthen the market. future market pressures can and will likely occur as products begin to leave the warehouses where they are stored, which we pay to store, and so there will be increased supply to the market. this could lead to further price declines and an even more difficult situation for producers. the commission therefore asks the following questions: does the european commission intend to follow up the private storage aid scheme in this situation? secondly, what impact does the commission foresee for the private storage scheme in terms of market impact and price stability (which i have already mentioned, because it is the pigmeat that will be returned from the warehouse, even if we keep it there now, paying for its storage)? will the commission take steps to ensure that the available funds from the aid for private storage go first and foremost to farmers, i repeat, to farmers who are in such great difficulty and need help, or will they go back to farmers, to operators, to intermediaries? we know that in this food chain from field to table, the farmer is the weakest link, and usually all the problems and problems associated with price declines are transferred from trade through producers, intermediaries, to the farmer. what action will the commission take in the context of the russian embargo, especially with regard to the existing ban, which also covers pig fat, lard and offal products? we know that the embargo was politically motivated, it was not related to the situation on the agricultural market, it was not the fault of the farmers. and the situation is that farmers are paying the price, and the embargo is also politically ineffective.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. chairman, please! the situation of farmers and pig farmers in the european union is difficult throughout the union, but it is particularly difficult in some countries, and especially in my country, poland. three geographical scourges have hit livestock farmers in poland: african swine fever, the russian embargo and the european agricultural policy - a policy that does not protect in particular small producers, owners of small family farms, but favours the concentration of production and large farms. we need to take decisive action to improve the situation, because in poland, for example, we had 19 million pigs eight years ago, and today there are not even half that number. we need support for pig producers, we need to return to pig storage subsidies, we need measures to open up new markets, export subsidies, export subsidies - these are measures that can and should improve a situation which is really dramatic. the pig producers are really begging, pleading and demanding the help of the european union.
the long-running crisis in agricultural markets has left farmers across the european union in a tragic situation, with some facing serious financial problems and the loss of their entire livelihood due to the very low prices of agricultural products. as early as september 2014, the european parliament, on the initiative of the ecr group, called on the commission to take immediate action to support farmers facing the crisis caused by the russian embargo and other problems. the catastrophic situation on the pigmeat market in poland is due to the fact that poland bears the burden and the consequences of protecting the union against the spread of african swine fever. poland is suffering losses due to the inability to export despite the disease being controlled. the union support should be granted to pig holdings in poland, which are in a worse situation than holdings in other member states due to the low prices due to african swine fever and the embargo. polish farmers were also particularly affected by last year's drought, which caused very serious problems in the livestock sector due to the lack of feed and the increase in feed prices. i call on the european commission to act and to resolve this huge crisis in agricultural markets immediately.
on behalf of polish pig producers, i would like to express my growing concern about the continued destabilisation of the pigmeat market in poland and the lack of effective action by the european commission. my country bears the brunt of the burden and the consequences of protecting the eu's borders from the spread of african swine fever, and this directly translates into huge losses for producers in the pigmeat sector. the measures taken so far by the european commission have not been enough to improve the income situation of pork producers, who are still suffering daily losses. i therefore fully support my country's demands for further financial support for the pigmeat sector and i expect the european commission to take measures that will have a real impact on the situation of pigmeat producers. the country, which has become a kind of bulwark protecting the market of the whole european union, should be given special support and not be left to its own devices. question to the european commission: will it finally take effective action to ensure fair prices in the field-to-table supply chain?
in this form, i could ask for a voice to add brief comments. commissioner hogan is in poland at the invitation of the minister of agriculture, which has been known for six weeks. today's date is a decision of the leadership of the parliament, and i wish it had been linked to the debate on monday when we discussed the agricultural issues, which commissioner hogan also attended. but i think it's probably good for the case that you're commissioner hahn, because there are also some very important issues related to the embargo that the member of parliament was talking about. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must note that consumption is falling on the european market, partly because we keep hearing in the media: lactose is bad for health, red meat is bad for health. this also affects the level of consumption on the european market. but there is growing competition on the world market and we must answer ourselves today: if we want to win this competition, we must increase production. what we do not want is industrialisation - it is very difficult to keep small farmers in this situation, it requires special instruments to support production in small farms, which is important for agriculture, the nature of european agriculture.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i also want to thank mr karim very warmly for this report, both for the analytical part and for the reformist part, because it is indeed a very british report in the best sense of the word, which says: you have to be consistent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you need to be more consistent in this case, because it's not abstract. the implementation of the subsidiarity principle is a good law for saving, and a good law for saving, without centralism, without arbitrariness, without excessive bureaucracy, means more energy and competitiveness in europe and in the member states. i therefore think that we should learn from this and really consider extending the period during which national parliaments can apply the principle of subsidiarity, and strengthening it. i would also very much like the uk to remain in the european union and we could have a red card mechanism that allows national parliaments to block bad legislation. finally, we need uniform criteria. the single criteria, on the other hand, require cooperation between the various national parliaments, all the member states of the european union and greater courage and openness on the part of the european parliament, which should not treat the national parliaments as competitors. finally, i would like to say to the rapporteur that i believe, i hope, that the united kingdom will remain in the european union and that its contribution will be beneficial to the economy, to good legislation. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. for many years now, i have had the great pleasure of working with mr karim on the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality in the eu law-making process, and each time new proposals or in-depth analyses of what we should do have emerged. it is worthwhile to make them effective, because it will undoubtedly have a very good impact on the quality of the law we create. the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is absolutely fundamental in the eu legislative process, i would say it is the starting point in the creation of community law. especially now, at a time when anti-eu sentiments are growing stronger in many of our member states, the question arises: why do we need the european union when it creates complex laws, when it over-regulates? why is this happening? the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality as recommended by mr karim, together with a very well-conducted impact assessment process is something we should be exposing in our work, which should include not only citizens but also european businesses in the understanding of the essence of european lawmaking, to understand why community law is an added value and not something we create for ourselves. hence the important role of involving national parliaments more in the creation of this law and making them more active at the stage of expressing their views on new proposals. this applies both to the proposal submitted by the european commission and to the final legal effect itself, which results from the negotiations between the european parliament and the council. i think that the deadline for submitting such requests in justified situations should indeed be extended, we should strengthen the role of national parliaments. that is why the innovative proposal put forward by mr karima to introduce a so-called green card, which would allow national parliaments to submit very reasoned and very sensible proposals to the european commission, seems to me to be extremely valid.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report which stresses the need to give greater weight to the principle of subsidiarity in the creation of european law. i agree with the rapporteur that we need more involvement, real participation of national parliaments in european law-making, that this is the essence of democracy, that we need to extend and strengthen the tools available to member states through which they can influence the shape of the law-making process. and here we are talking about a yellow card which already exists (the report proposes a green card, a red card). these are tools that allow you to effectively inhibit or contribute to the creation of law. we also need a better understanding of what the subsidiarity principle is, how to interpret the law and where the boundaries of the competences of the european union and the member states lie. this report reminds us of the principle of subsidiarity, that it is a universal principle that underpins the european union, that everything that can be done at the level of the member states should be done there and only what is above that at the level of the european union, so that what we do at the level of the european union is actually a bonus and benefits everyone, and not a tights that embarrasses us. it is very important to remember this principle of subsidiarity, because violating this principle undermines trust in the european union and makes the european union appear to be a threat to independence, which is of course complete nonsense. thank you so much!
in writing. the refit programme, which aims to improve eu legislation and regulatory efficiency, is an important step towards simplifying legislation and significantly reducing the regulatory burden on smes, which account for 80% of jobs created in europe. however, it should be borne in mind that any changes to the legislation should be thoroughly considered, also in the long term. overly hasty simplification of administrative obligations in the areas of data protection, consumer product safety and public procurement can have a negative impact on civil liberties and labour rights. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential that workers have the right to health and safety at work and to minimum conditions of employment, regardless of the company in which they are employed. in addition, an important aspect of the refit programme is the analysis of the commission's impact assessment, which should include an assessment of the social and environmental consequences of the lack of legislation and its impact on citizens' fundamental rights. it is also necessary to improve ex post controls throughout the legislative process and to ensure transparency, predictability and legal certainty at union level.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i support the introduction of the european union in the school curriculum. knowledge of the causes and history of european integration, the functioning of the european institutions or the impact of the union on the daily lives of its citizens can and should be part of history courses or knowledge of society, as in the case of my country, poland. such information certainly adds value to school education and equips students with the knowledge needed to understand the modern world. the civic education initiative is particularly important: the role of the school is not only to educate but also to educate. students should be taught and encouraged to participate in active civic life. given the influx of refugees and the increasing percentage of people of non-european origin in the societies of the member states, educational opportunities, and in particular attention to civic education, are important for their integration into our society. mr drăghici's report supports these initiatives, taking into account the financial support of the european commission.
in writing. according to eurostat statistics, in february 2016, youth unemployment in the eu was 21.5% in the euro area and 19.5% for the european union as a whole. despite some positive developments in recent years, these figures are worrying. the use of erasmus+ and other tools to support mobility in vocational education and training is one of the initiatives that is crucial for a lasting improvement. increased mobility helps to increase the occupational flexibility of young people and to promote self-improvement and active job search. currently, only 1% of young people in work-linked vocational training are involved in mobility programmes. i fully support any action to improve mobility programmes in vocational education and training. it is of particular importance to facilitate the mutual recognition and accreditation of all such initiatives.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. politicians in my region have been warning for years about russia's neo-imperialist policies. georgia and ukraine should be a warning light. now that we're aware of the russian propaganda war against the west, do we analyze how it might have affected the outcome of the dutch referendum? the european union's citizens and politicians have supported the presidency's citizens in implementing the common security and defence policy against our partners and against threats such as those from russia. do we realize that the same propaganda can be used in all the member states of the european union without exception?
madam president! if this passage in the preamble to the treaty on european union, which speaks of the inspiration of europe's religious heritage, is to have real meaning and not just be a diplomatic ornament, we should remember anniversaries such as the 1050th anniversary of the baptism of poland. it is a pity that the president of our parliament has not addressed a message to our society on this occasion. the more so because 50 years ago the celebration of the millennium of the baptism of poland was a milestone on the road to freedom of our nation, and therefore also on the road that brought freedom to other nations of europe and security to all. these events show that christian civilization is not only our heritage, but in modern times it has also been the foundation of our freedom. he's still our hope.
the question asked by raising the blue card. many of our countries do not agree with the principle of forcible relocation of migrants in europe. the european commission and the majority of parliament are determined to do so. are you aware that what we are actually witnessing is not just the social decomposition of europe, but the political disintegration of the european union, if we ignore the positions of states that simply disagree with such a policy, and moreover, have the right to disagree.
mr president, this is an excellent report. ‘holistic approach’ means a multidimensional understanding of the problem of migration. there is a refugee crisis and a big influx of people. challenging this phenomenon, we need to establish well—coordinated european policies oriented at making our borders secure and under smart control. but at the same time we need solidarity in our location of the refugees, better organised transit measures and new procedures for dublin schemes. the only guarantee is real cooperation on the part of member states, not the marketing games led by some politicians. there is only one honest political message: be open to solving the human dimension of the problem and separate the matters of refugees and terrorists rather than connecting them. what about migration? this is a challenge, especially now vis-à-vis the many social fears all over europe. the added value of the report is to look at legal migration as an opportunity for aging european societies and for solving the problem of shortages on the labour markets. on the other hand, for a successful story in that area, we also need reasonable policies – not only in member states but above all at european level – and we have recommendations for those policies in this report. this report is a background for further decision-making processes. we need to move from the chaotic emergency activities to the well-integrated long—term ones.
mr. chairman, please! many speakers have spoken of solidarity, but i would like to stress that only a safe and responsible europe can effectively help refugees. only a europe that is responsible and secure can be truly united. i therefore share the view of mr zdechovský that the report is a little late in comparison with the realistic turn the european union has recently made in protecting the external borders, strengthening the frontex and building a european border guard, which i strongly support. i repeat once again: only a responsible europe can be truly solidarity-oriented, and that is why we must take rational decisions: we must strengthen the european border guard, and not put all our trust in the relocation mechanism, which is not functional, which is rejected by a significant part of society, and above all by the refugees themselves, as the slovak and czech members of parliament have said. rationality is a prerequisite for effective solidarity.
in my view, the greatest achievement of mrs metsoli's report is to indicate what comprehensive action is needed to reduce the migration crisis in such a way that illegal migration is gradually replaced by a legal procedure for access to europe. and while there is still much to be done, it seems that the european commission has already made a milestone step forward in preparing its proposal for a migration package. however, in this context, today it is mainly up to the member states, which have their own commitments in the european multi-faceted plan to combat the migration crisis. so far, as we can see, the relocation mechanism has failed. of the planned 160,000 resettlements, only about 1,000 have been completed. another problem is to effectively prevent secondary migration, for example by relocating migrants to areas where labour market shortages are most acute. however, this requires member states to map the demand for workers in specific occupations and to train refugees accordingly. thank you!
the author. we are again debating the difficult situation on agricultural markets in parliament today. the question to ask at the outset is why the measures taken under the cap instruments have not produced the expected results. i am thinking here of the 500 million euro aid programme introduced last year to finance the private storage of milk powder, butter, cheese and pork. the measures to limit the effects of the russian embargo have also been extended. we have pointed out on many occasions in the committee on agriculture that external factors - that is, the situation on world markets - have an impact on what is happening on our european market. global food prices have been falling in recent years, and in 2015 they were down 19%. brazil, argentina and others have increased their production significantly, and the weakness of their currencies is helping their export earnings. brazil is projected to replace the united states as the world's largest soybean producer this season. argentina also increased its production and exports of wheat as a result of the reduction in the export tax. russia's grain harvest is also growing. all this is happening with the decreasing demand for food from china, india. europe has also been affected by the russian embargo, which is in its second year (as i mentioned). last year we eliminated the milk quotas, which encouraged many producers to increase production. remember the projections that predict a 65-70% increase in food demand by 2050 as a result of the projected increase in the world's population to 9 or 10 billion people and the associated increase in consumption, which has encouraged many farmers to increase production. so, with such complex external conditions, the instruments that we use as part of the so-called safety net are not very effective. waiting for the possible solutions taken at the mid-term review is postponing the problem, which causes the increase in the dissatisfaction of farmers. i think we underestimate the determination of farmers, which could end in mass protests. milk prices are already falling below production costs, as is the case with the pigmeat market. this leads to a lack of financial resources to continue production and, as a result, to the collapse of farms. many farmers facing bankruptcy do not see a future in the agricultural sector. this will lead to further increases in farm size, scale and intensity, which means a move away from the european model of sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. in this context, specific questions have been formulated as part of our general question. firstly, could the commission discuss further the steps it is taking to reduce the pressure on farmers in the sectors most affected? the commission notes that the aid measures in question were granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. thirdly, how will the commission combat unfair practices in the food supply chain and ensure fair incomes for farmers? fourthly, what precautions can be taken to counteract the effects on agriculture of future shocks and disturbances originating abroad? (as i explained at the beginning of my talk.) fifthly, how does the commission ensure that, following discussions with the financial institutions, flexible and innovative financial instruments are made available in a practical form for producers to use? you've been working very hard on this, commissioner hogan. it seems therefore that there is an urgent need to take action today, mainly by continuing the instruments and trends already in place, but at a correspondingly higher level - i repeat: a higher level - which would improve the very difficult current situation of farmers. an increase in de minimis aid could also be considered, as additional direct support to farms seems to be needed in such a complex situation. in this context, farmers are increasingly looking forward to the financial instruments announced and to the possibility of using the european fund for strategic investments for important investments in the agricultural sector.
on behalf of polish agricultural producers, i would like to express my growing concern about the continued destabilisation of all agricultural markets and the continued lack of effective action by the european commission. the scale of the crisis is so great that it is not possible to mention even some of the problems facing farmers in such a short debate. we must take decisive action to improve the situation of agriculture. what you're proposing, commissioner, is not a serious proposal. yes, your travel list is impressive, but i doubt it will improve the situation of the farmers. i therefore call on the commission once again to take effective action to ensure that, for example, fair prices are in place in the supply chain, from field to table. this decision is within the commission's power, but decisive legislative action is needed, not just any recommendations made by the commission. thank you so much! (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i said that in one minute it is not possible to even list all the problems and define all the markets, because basically the whole agricultural sector is collapsing. what i have been calling for from the beginning of this term of office is supply chain regulation. we know that the prices of agricultural products, the prices that farmers get, are very low. but when consumers have to pay a high price in the markets, it's really a profit for the speculators. and here the european commission has just introduced... the chairman withdrew the floor.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the very difficult situation in the milk and pork markets, including in my country, poland, is caused by, among other things, the catastrophic drought in 2015, the effects of the russian embargo on the pork market, the effects of african swine fever, although it only occurs in feral pigs, unfortunately it is affecting the entire market. at the agriculture council on 14 march, the polish minister of agriculture made the following proposals, among others: to reintroduce temporary targeted support for milk and pigmeat producers, to increase the intervention price for butter and milk powder, to launch export subsidies for pigmeat, to increase de minimis aid per holding and overall limits for individual member states, and to consider using the general budget or the crisis reserve as a source of funding for these and other commission measures to improve the situation on agricultural markets. i would like to ask the commissioner which of these proposals or which of these proposals have a chance of being applied by the commissioner. thank you so much! (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. the russian embargo is indeed a complicated issue. what is needed is the solidarity of all the eu countries and the real effort - as the commissioner said - to get the embargo lifted at the world trade organisation, of which russia is a member. i hope that such a joint action on this matter will be possible.
in writing. the crisis in the european agricultural sector has been going on for several years, making the situation for farmers more difficult and understandably frustrating. action to stabilise agricultural markets is therefore urgent and necessary. the european commission's new emergency measures to help european farmers affected by the crisis, introduced last month, are undoubtedly a step in the right direction. however, it is important to ensure that the aid offered goes first to the farmers and not to intermediaries or to the farmers' circle, as it is the farmer who bears the greatest burden of the price drop. the ongoing russian embargo on food imports, which has already cost european farmers more than €5 billion, and the political difficulties facing the eu and russia, is also a major problem. the commission's efforts to increase trade flows with third countries are to be welcomed, but they still do not compensate for the losses caused by the embargo and therefore more efforts are needed to reopen the russian market.
in writing. european farmers face many difficulties that reduce their incomes and prevent them from investing in farm development. the continuing russian embargo on eu agricultural products and the abolition of milk quotas are very serious problems. in addition, we can observe a decline in food prices and an intensification of agricultural production all over the world (e.g. in asia and south america). there are also concerns about the negotiations on international trade agreements, which could have serious consequences for our agricultural sector. we have now reached the point where the question of the european model of agriculture and the treaty guarantee of a fair income for farmers is justified. it is true that the european commission is making some efforts and introducing instruments to improve the situation. however, these measures have not had much effect, farmers' discontent is growing and experts predict that this decline in farmers' incomes may continue for several years. the worst part is, he has no vision of what's next. i believe that the eu should return to quotas for production such as milk and extend them to pig production, linking quotas to direct payments to guarantee income. either the european model of agriculture and the treaty guarantee of income, or the invisible hand of the market and the disaster of european agriculture.
in writing. the additional penalty for polish farmers for exceeding milk quotas in the crisis situation on the milk market and after the abolition of milk quotas on 1 april 2015 is absolutely unacceptable. the situation of milk producers in poland, as in the european union as a whole, is dramatic. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the milk levy is justified by the fact that the milk levy is not directly linked to the milk levy. i call on the commission, in the face of the continuing russian embargo on dairy products, to waive the fines imposed on polish producers, which amount to over eur 200 million. the solutions proposed by the european commission in march do not reflect the scale of the crisis in agricultural markets. i would like to ask the commission again to allocate additional financial resources to producers in the dairy, pigmeat and other sectors affected by the crisis. the fate of milk producers depends on the commission's immediate financial assistance.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to thank the commission for this cohesion exercise, which will bring not only greater transparency but also greater legal clarity to this document.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal concerns the harmonisation and conversion of the market access regulation governing imports of products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. it is a temporary instrument providing duty-free and quota-free access to the eu27 market for acp countries which are not classified as least developed countries by the world bank and which do not benefit from preferential access to the eu market under an economic partnership agreement in accordance with wto rules. as vice-president of the eu-acp delegation, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries agreement between denmark and greenland gives eu vessels access to mixed fisheries in greenland waters (the most commonly caught species are northern prawns, halibut, cod and redfish). the greenland agreement is the third most important for the eu in terms of economic value. in 2013, the agreement generated €10 million in direct profits for the eu fisheries sector. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposed agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has negotiated an agreement replacing some provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. one of its main elements is the designation clause, which allows all eu carriers to benefit from the right of enterprise, aviation fuel taxation and the prohibition of anti-competitive practices. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ directive 92/77/eec introduced a system of minimum vat rates. according to its terms, from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1996 the basic rate could not be lower than 15%. the period of validity of this provision has been extended five times. the last expiry date was 31 december 2015. in this proposal, the commission proposes to maintain with retroactive effect the current requirement for eu countries to apply a minimum basic vat rate of 15%. the proposal will therefore have no impact on tax rates. the commission proposes to extend the validity of the provision for two years, until 31 december 2017. given the nature of the document, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ vat is levied at every stage of the marketing of goods or services and, by its very nature, should not have a direct impact on the activities of undertakings. unfortunately, 60 years after its creation, it has become a burden for many companies and a means of unfair competition for others. the eu loses almost €200 billion every year to vat fraud and almost €50 billion to so-called 'tax carousels' in cross-border transactions within the single market. it is good that the european commission is planning to introduce a new system to combat current abuses next year. it will make it possible for a company delivering goods to another eu country to pay tax in its own country at the vat rate in force in the country of destination, and only then will the tax office transfer the amount received to the tax office in the country where the importer is established. but cross-border abuse is only part of the problem. as vat has developed, most countries have opted for various reduced or zero rates. these decisions were intended to be part of a combination of two policies: fiscal and social. but they have resulted in an increase in tax evasion and fraud, with little effect on the poorest. for these reasons, i believe that vat legislation requires much deeper, systematic and comprehensive changes, rather than just the piecemeal ones that have been made so far.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the minimum basic rate of vat, defined as a value of not less than 15%. i am convinced that this type of decision will help to maintain the structural balance throughout the european union. this directive has been in force for several years and has proved to be a key instrument in the elimination of distortions of competition in the economic sectors concerned. in the context of the functioning of the internal market of the eu countries, the proposed vat rate is still an effective safeguard against the loss of its stability.
in writing. ‒ increasing the effectiveness of the fight against serious crime and terrorism is particularly important in today's world. by improving the exchange of information between law enforcement agencies, we reduce the opportunities for criminals to exploit loopholes. any agreements in this area must be concluded in compliance with the data protection provisions contained in the new europol regulation. the text of the report expresses parliament's agreement to the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between europol and brazil to promote and enhance the effectiveness of actions and mutual cooperation in the prevention and combating of organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting at least two member states. the terms of the agreement shall provide for the exchange of information and may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on investigative procedures and crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and advice and support in specific investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the europol strategic cooperation agreement with brazil. the content of the agreement rightly concerns the improvement of the effectiveness of action in the fight against serious forms of crime. the european police office may conclude agreements with states not members of the european union which are specified by a council decision. cooperation with brazil will benefit the security of the eu member states and brazil itself. this is a very important issue because brazil is about to host the 2016 summer olympics. joint prevention of organised crime, assistance in combating terrorism and the illegal activities of criminal groups should lead to the elimination of the dangers resulting from the lack of joint action. the steady increase in cooperation with countries outside the european union has a positive impact on the impact of the activities carried out. analysis, exchange, information gathering and efficient coordination will help to progressively minimise the size of illegal crime areas. i agree with the proposed cooperation strategy, which is a strategic agreement on the exchange of information that does not involve personal data. such agreements have already been concluded with other countries outside the european union. europol currently cooperates with 18 non-eu countries, including four with which it has strategic agreements. the number of countries cooperating with europol should be steadily increased in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the activities undertaken.
in writing. ‒ a wide network of international cooperation is important for the effectiveness of police services. detecting cross-border threats, fighting international crime and effectively tracking down people wanted by the law is only possible through the cooperation of police from different countries and continents. the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol is a good step that will improve the functioning of police services in the member states of the european union. brazil, the largest country in south america, has a well-organized security force with experience in fighting organized crime. the exchange of experience and enhanced cooperation in this area will also contribute to the efficiency of european services. this cooperation will be very valuable in the process of securing sporting events, including the olympic games to be held in rio de janeiro this year, also in the context of the terrorist threat. south america is also one of the main sources of drug crime, and close cooperation with the continent's largest country in the field of information exchange, training and study visits will undoubtedly increase the detection of drug trafficking from this region of the world to the european union.
in writing. ‒ on 25 september 2015, the european parliament received a request from the public prosecutor's office in leipzig to waive the immunity of member hermann winkler in order to allow criminal proceedings to be opened against him. mr. winkler was involved in a serious car accident on the highway in september 2015 and appears to have been under the influence of alcohol at the time. mr. winkler has waived his right to testify before the juri. it is clear to the rapporteur that the alleged illegal act has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr winkler of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the report to the european parliament therefore recommends that mr winkler's immunity be waived. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report deals with the international management of areas beyond national jurisdiction, sometimes referred to as 'full seas'. un members are responsible for the protection and conservation of the world's waters under two international agreements: (1) the un convention on fisheries and (2) the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos). this report is a positive response to the decision to develop an international legally binding instrument under unclos to address the challenges of protecting the high seas. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mining, energy drilling, pollution and marine litter all contribute to the damage done to marine habitats and ecosystems. the report calls on the commission to work with stakeholders to support the new instrument and highlights the eu's important role in ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas. i voted in favour of the above document.
in writing. ‒ the great wealth of man is the natural environment and all that mother nature gives us. but we can't always respect what we have. in addition, our population is growing very rapidly, which results in an increasing demand for raw materials and natural resources. one such resource is the sea and the animals that live in it. the un initiative is therefore very welcome and gives great importance to the issue of marine biodiversity and the creation of an instrument that will allow the control of marine resources. in the management of marine resources, it is necessary to take fisheries into account. the creation of an effective instrument that ensures fisheries that are sustainable for ecosystems, respect conservation periods and respect endangered species should therefore be encouraged. in order to ensure that such an instrument is at least minimally effective, it is necessary to establish a control system which allows for the accounting of all operators using marine waters. such an instrument must take into account the specificities of developing countries and the difficulties that will arise in the implementation and enforcement of this instrument in the future. we must therefore ensure that the european union plays a significant role in the creation and implementation of this instrument.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal combines four pieces of legislation on the fundamental principles for the management of farmed animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species into a single horizontal directive. the purpose of this directive is to provide a simplified and clear legal framework for the structuring of the breeding sector, rules for the management of breeding books/breeding registers, breeding and use value or genetic evaluation, rules for intra-eu trade and imports from third countries and rules for zootechnical official controls. the directive will facilitate free trade in high-quality breeding animals and their genetic material, contribute to the protection of breeds throughout the eu and improve cooperation between the competent authorities of the different member states in this field. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ good legislation on trade in animals and their biological material is a prerequisite for high-quality breeding in europe, animal welfare and the provision of high-quality food to european consumers. the details of trade in animals are very important for the preservation of purity of breeds, which is of no small importance for example in the breeding of horses. just as consumers have a right to know where the products they buy come from, breeders need to know the origin of the breeding material they buy in order to be able to provide reliable information about their products to buyers. simple and transparent procedures to facilitate compliance with the rules laid down are also important for producers. simplification of procedures and modifications to official controls will allow effective enforcement of the new legislation. such a law will make a well-functioning livestock sector the perfect basis for all animal production in the european union.
in writing. ‒ a well-functioning livestock sector is essential for animal production in the eu, with an estimated value added of almost €2 billion. at present, there is a separate basic directive for each species and specific decisions and directives concerning, among other things, the recognition of trade organisations, the registration of farmed animals in books, certificates, valuation, genetic evaluation, etc. the european commission's proposal to consolidate all existing zootechnical legislation into a single regulation is a definite step in the right direction. the amendments proposed by parliament are equally important. particular attention should be paid to the decision on simplification of official controls, which aims to minimise the bureaucratic burden on breeders, many of whom are small and medium-sized enterprises. the production of livestock not only contributes to economic and social development but is also one of the fundamental pillars of food security in the union. i am therefore pleased that an agreement has been reached between the institutions to simplify the existing legislation in this area considerably, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's own-initiative report is a response to the migration agenda presented by the european commission in may 2015. this report was intended to present an ambitious and horizontal approach to all forms of migration within the eu, including legal migration, refugees, irregular migration and the schengen area. the proposals in the final report include, among others, a call for a mandatory eu-wide refugee relocation scheme, the replacement of the current dublin regulation with a centralised asylum application procedure via european hotspots (to allow for effective asylum applications throughout the union rather than in individual member states), and a call for humanitarian visas. in the absence of increased emphasis on strengthening external border controls, making returns and readmission of persons denied asylum more effective and combating trafficking in human beings, i could not support this report as the policy recommendations made do not represent a reasonable or sustainable solution to the current crisis in europe.
in writing. ‒ while welcoming the effort made in the report on the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration and supporting the overall direction of humanitarian assistance to migrants and the eradication of the illegal smuggling industry that has grown in recent years, i strongly oppose some of the theses and proposals contained in the document. first of all, i do not support criticism of those states that, in order to properly implement national and eu law on border protection, build walls and fences, carefully check every asylum application and call for assistance to migrants in situ or in non-european transit countries. secondly, i do not agree with the thesis, which has been repeatedly put forward, that only a binding relocation mechanism will bring a solution to the migration crisis. on the contrary, it weakens the determination of eu border countries to stem the flow of refugees and effectively combat illegal migration. third, i do not agree that accepting refugees can be the cure for europe's demographic collapse and the associated labour market deficit. a much better solution to this problem would be legal labour migration, where the process of integration into the labour market is faster, cheaper and less risky for infiltration by undesirable people. in this context, the european commission should consider amending the blue card directive to cover other groups of workers than only highly qualified professionals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's own-initiative report is a response to the migration agenda presented by the european commission in may 2015. the report aimed to present an ambitious and horizontal approach to all forms of migration in the eu, including legal migration, refugees, irregular migration and the schengen area. the proposals in the final report include: calling for the introduction of a mandatory eu refugee relocation system; replacing the dublin regulation with a centralised asylum procedure via european hotspots (to allow for effective asylum applications throughout the union rather than in individual member states); calling for humanitarian visas; and other ways for economic migrants to gain legal access to the eu. the report under-emphasises the need to strengthen external border controls, to make returns and readmission of non-asylum seekers more effective, to combat trafficking in human beings, to focus on resettlement rather than intra-eu relocation, to implement existing rules more widely and to prevent secondary movements of asylum seekers, and to fund agencies such as europol, easo and frontex to speed up the processing of applications, to take decisions on applications and to fingerprint all arrivals. policy recommendations do not provide a sensible or sustainable solution to the current crisis in europe. for these reasons, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the conflict in syria has brought over a million refugees to the european union in the past year alone, creating a migration crisis on a scale not seen since the end of the second world war. so far, the eu countries have not found a solution to the influx of such a large number of people. first of all, europe needs to change its thinking on migration. you can't keep looking for emergency solutions to emergency situations. it's a long process to actually deal with this problem. the services must draw a clear line between those who need protection and those who come to the old continent for profit. those who flee war and persecution first have the right to eu protection. the latter must rely on the decisions of the member states, since they control their labour markets. the return system needs to be improved, as only 36% of those who were to leave the union were successfully returned in 2014. moreover, the abolition of internal border controls in the schengen area must go hand in hand with the strengthening of the union's external borders, and those who remain in europe must respect the values on which the community is founded. all these elements were included in the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration, which is why i decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis is a problem that is the result of political instability and very poor living conditions in the middle east and africa. all the proposals to solve this problem that come from the european institutions relate only to current affairs and to the treatment of the symptoms of this crisis, but there is nothing new to be found in solving the fundamental problem of preventing the breakdown of the states in the closest neighbourhood of the european union. this report is another such voice, which does not bring anything new and repeats the previously erroneous reasoning. the demand, with which i particularly disagree, is the call to continue the policy of relocating so-called refugees. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including organised crime in the former yugoslavia. the eu should focus on countering mass immigration and improving living conditions in refugee camps in lebanon and turkey. liberalisation of asylum and schengen border crossing rules will increase the threat of terrorism and lead to an escalation of the migration crisis. as a result, many member states will take action on their own to secure their borders, threatening to break up the schengen area. this report gives the prospect of an effective solution to the migration crisis affecting europe. i voted against his acceptance.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the importance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the need for a stronger involvement of national parliaments in the eu legislative process. the report proposes greater inclusion of suggestions from national parliaments, including on preparatory work such as green and white papers, an extension of the period of consultation with national parliaments in subsidiarity checks and a wider dialogue between the european commission and each national parliament through an annual debate. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality is the basis for the functioning of the european union. they help to define when the eu has legislative powers and contributes to decision-making in accordance with the principle of 'nearby citizens' and which actions taken by the community institutions are necessary and essential to achieve the objectives of the treaty. the increased involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years has resulted in a greater awareness of the principles on which the eu is based, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the interinstitutional context. the subsidiarity control mechanism is essential for cooperation between the european and national institutions. it allows national parliaments to give an opinion if they consider that a draft eu legislative act does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the number of such opinions has increased significantly in recent years, accounting for 25% of all applications in 2012 and 30% in 2013. in addition, in 2012 a yellow card procedure was initiated for the first time, which led, inter alia, to the commission's decision to withdraw the proposal for collective action in the context of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services, due to a lack of political support.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european commission's report on the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality comes at a time when the future of the european union and the principle of the common functioning of the member states are being discussed anew. the broad support for and positive feedback on this report shows that the fundamental principle of the eu's functioning, subsidiarity, should be addressed more often and more deeply in the legislative process, so that it can benefit the member states, provide added value, and be a tool that solves problems at european level better than the member states acting alone. this report, in addition to calling for greater involvement and a stronger voice of national parliaments in european law-making, recalls the already existing tools for assessing the effects of regulation in the context of the subsidiarity principle. this is necessary at a time when many ep reports go beyond the eu's remit, encroach on the member states' remit and cause unnecessary tension and division. the subsidiarity principle does not mean that the ep cannot have a say in national policies, but only that common solutions in this area require the voluntary cooperation of the member states and cannot be imposed from above as a 'european answer to a problem', but should be built from the bottom up, on the basis of the exchange of good practices and then the coordination of selected actions so as to benefit from cooperation without restricting the freedom of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity is a very valuable tool in the process of european law-making. it provides an opportunity to verify that action taken at european level is justified and effective. this principle gives member states and national parliaments the opportunity to express themselves and to take a position that takes account of their perspective. in many cases, the application of this principle has avoided the adoption of regulations that would have been much more effective if the specific national circumstances had been taken into account and the matter had been left to the legislator of a particular member state. promoting the principle of subsidiarity and its particular importance should be an important task for the european institutions, and in particular for the european parliament, which is the voice of the citizens of the member states. in many cases, a wider inclusion of this voice would avoid legal absurdities and improve the functioning of the european administration. i agree with the report's theses, which show that the european commission does not listen enough to the member states' voices and to the concerns they raise. a constructive dialogue between the commission and the member states should be the basis for effective legislation. it should take account of the key role of the member states in shaping european policy and be more open to the reservations that national parliaments have about commission proposals. i agree with the conclusions of this report and support the call for a better application of the principle of subsidiarity in the work of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ excessive bureaucracy is one of the most serious problems facing the eu today, affecting not only the quality of existing law but also the lives of european citizens and their relationship with the community. the refit regulatory efficiency and performance programme was designed to consolidate better law-making procedures and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. since its introduction, some improvements have been made in legislative practice, but much remains to be done. the commission's decision of 2015 to review all legislative initiatives adopted to date and, if necessary, to update or eliminate them is in this respect welcome. the parliament's report rightly stressed that an ex post evaluation of the union's legislation is also necessary, as well as an obligation on the commission to carry out an impact test of the new legislation on smes, especially since 20 million smes represent 99% of all businesses in the eu. all these steps are important parts of the process of making the european union work better and should be taken as quickly and as effectively as possible, otherwise the union will remain a bureaucratic bogeyman, multiplying low-quality legislation that does not serve european citizens as it should.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the issues that are important for the preparation of high-quality legislation to better meet the objectives of the single market. it complements the work on better regulation undertaken by the juri committee and the empl committee's report on business and job creation, prepared by the ecr rapporteur, which adopted the principles of better regulation in relation to the work of the employment committee. the report includes support for a number of ecr policy priorities, including: respect for the principle of subsidiarity; the value of impact assessments and consultation; and, importantly from the imco perspective, the need for an effective enforcement and monitoring system. these areas need to work together in order for the single market to function effectively and to ensure a level playing field for all. with that in mind, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently under fire for its overregulation and excessive bureaucracy. effective action is needed to make the community more effective and clearer in demonstrating its usefulness to its citizens. the creation of more and more unnecessary regulations is definitely not a step in the right direction. this situation not only leads to a low quality of legislation but also creates a lot of confusion and uncertainty for consumers and businesses. the parliament's report aims to examine how to improve the functioning of the single market to make it more efficient. it rightly emphasises the importance of smes and calls for an assessment of the impact of legislation on smes at every stage of consultation, implementation, monitoring and enforcement. it is of the utmost importance for businesses that the law which is created is transparent, predictable, effective and interferes as little as possible with their activities. in my view, european legislative initiatives can only be justified if they have added value. this is also the position expressed in the report on the drive to improve the single market, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ ensuring the effective functioning of the single market is a key task for the european institutions. the european union is a community of economic interests based on close economic cooperation between its member states. greater transparency in the legislative process and the simplification of many provisions will certainly contribute to improving the functioning of the single market. we need to create a better environment for entrepreneurship and job creation, including in a cross-border context. the report responds to many of the european conservatives and reformists group's calls for european law-making, including better application of the subsidiarity principle, preparation of a sound impact assessment of proposed regulations before they are adopted, wider public consultation on proposed legal solutions with the communities and actors targeted by proposed legislation, and greater emphasis on assessing the real impact of proposed regulations and their impact on the effective functioning of the single market. i believe that the report presented takes account of the demands of the juri, empl and imco committees to improve the legislative process in the european union on the regulation of the single market. i voted for this report.
mr. chairman, please! schools are supposed to teach knowledge and culture, not political propaganda. however, the educational recommendation presented is not only a recommendation of political propaganda aimed at the most legitimate views of millions of our countries, critical views on the state of the european union (this is what my colleagues škripek and zahradil said), but it is also ideological propaganda of multiculturalism and the political homosexual movement, against which millions of citizens of our countries, from croatia and slovenia to france and spain, have risen up. this is a direct violation of family rights, and those family rights are defined in the charter of fundamental rights. by taking this course, the european union is not only denying the principle of subsidiarity, but is striking at its very foundation.
in writing. ‒ the report by damian draghi, entitled 'teaching the eu in schools', hopes that the actions described in it will 'fight the phenomenon of 'conviction in the existence of a democratic deficit' and 'widespread euroscepticism' from an early age, also outside the school classroom, and create a 'sense of belonging to the eu' and 'acceptance of multicultural and multinational societies'. to meet these ambitions, member states are required to urgently step up 'political education' for union citizenship by all means and to allocate more financial resources to this end. according to the document, all means and tools should be used to this end. i am firmly against the logic of the report itself i believe that school teaching and out-of-school education are a matter for the member states, and the union should never interfere. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on learning about the eu in school rightly notes that the low level of eu knowledge among citizens of the member states, but above all the feeling of having little influence on the eu, may be contributing to a declining sympathy for the eu and a low turnout in elections to the european parliament. according to a 2014 eurobarometer, 44% of eu citizens have a limited understanding of how the union works, and 52% of europeans feel that their voice does not count. the low voter turnout is of particular concern for young people: in 2014, only 28% of 18-24 year olds participated in the elections to the european parliament. the process of development and complexity of eu governance processes is not accompanied by an increased information campaign or a campaign to involve citizens in the shaping of the union; the absence of such a campaign is conducive to distancing from the union and to the development of eurosceptic attitudes. i share the report's view that european content should be integrated into school and university curricula. this also applies to the european values of tolerance, non-discrimination, respect for diversity, minority rights, which together with the common market shape the eu. i support the call in the report to update and promote citizenship and foreign language teaching in the member states so that it also equips pupils with knowledge of the european project and increases civic participation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report by damian draghi, entitled 'teaching the eu in schools', hopes that the actions described in it will 'fight the phenomenon of 'conviction in the existence of a democratic deficit' and 'widespread euroscepticism' from an early age, also outside the school classroom, and create a 'sense of belonging to the eu' and 'acceptance of multicultural and multinational societies'. to meet these ambitions, member states are required to urgently step up 'political education' for union citizenship by all means and to allocate more financial resources to this end. all means and tools should be used: teaching materials, textbooks and school curricula (eu history, eu governance, values, languages, etc.), teacher training, extracurricular activities, social media, virtual platforms, role-playing games, research, apprenticeships, volunteering, sport, geographical mobility, exchange of good practices, creation of the 'euro teacher' quality label, visits between schools, visits to european institutions, meetings with eu officials, etc. however, school teaching and out-of-school education are matters for the member states, and the union should never interfere in them. i could not hereby support the report
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis, which has lasted for years, has considerably weakened euro-enthusiasm in the old continent and has even called into question the legitimacy of the institutions and the common values of the european union. in this context, it seems necessary to intensify the activities aimed at communicating the importance of the community in educational institutions. promoting the spirit of european values and the belief in the need for the eu in young people is of the utmost importance for the creation of a european civil society. citizens know little about the eu and its institutions. it is not surprising that they feel disconnected from, or even repelled by, the european political project, as reflected in the growing eurosceptic movements. it is therefore necessary to inform citizens better and to encourage their active participation in the community. more emphasis should be placed on the eu dimension in school education, which will help to curb the growth of euroscepticism and prepare citizens for life in an increasingly globalised world. given the importance of the issue of promoting knowledge of the european union, i decided to support the report presented.
in writing. ‒ the report on learning about the eu in school is certainly timely, as the eu is facing a growing euroscepticism and citizens are becoming increasingly aware of the democratic deficit in eu decision-making. however, the motivation for eurosceptic attitudes often remains a lack of knowledge of the principles of the eu's functioning and the values on which european integration is based. public opinion polls from 2014 indicate that 44% of eu citizens feel they have a limited understanding of how the eu works, and nearly 52% of europeans feel that their voice does not count in the eu. the lowest turnout since 1979 in the last european parliament elections is undoubtedly a reflection of these statistics. i strongly support the report's premises, while stressing that the eu dimension of education should be based not only on the acquisition of knowledge but also on critical reflection on eu issues. in this context, i stress the role, and thus also the need to ensure stable funding, of initiatives based on the strengthening of a sense of belonging to the eu and the promotion of cultural awareness and intercultural understanding the eu programmes erasmus+, europe for citizens and creative europe, the newly established house of european history in brussels, or the pan-european euranet+ radio broadcasting network aimed at reducing the distance between the european union and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the idea of deepening european identity by increasing the amount of materials and teaching activities on the european union in schools is difficult to defend and recalls the worst associations of the time when ideology was the subject of lectures in my country. the statistics on voter turnout in the european elections cited in this report should not be used as an argument for mandatory indoctrination about the benefits of the eu, as low voter turnout is also characteristic of national elections. the idea of presenting the benefits of the european union unilaterally without being able to present the whole economic and political context of the community's functioning seems to be inappropriate. i believe that every eu citizen has the right to judge the eu negatively and should not be forced to change his or her views. the free access to knowledge is now the standard, thanks to the internet, and anyone interested in european affairs can access it. the curricula of recent history in schools also take into account the theme of european integration, where this issue is raised and discussed. the report is proof that the european institutions are moving beyond their role and are becoming more concerned with good public opinion and polling stations than with solving the problems facing the eu. i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is the eu's programme for education, training, youth and sport. the report aims to highlight the tools used in lifelong learning and mobility and to suggest improvements. the final report, which was voted on in committee, contains a number of positive ideas, such as a call for the extension of existing initiatives on mobility in vocational education and training in terms of accessibility, especially for disadvantaged families, and measures to facilitate integration into the labour market. however, it also contains some problematic issues, such as the call for funding of language support for all participants in erasmus+ programmes without language restrictions, and unnecessary recommendations, such as the creation of an eu e-mobility card and the recognition of erasmus+ names and graphic symbols as trademarks, with the possibility of their use only in erasmus+ publications. in addition, the report calls on the member states to introduce a 'dual education' approach to secondary education, which is too prescriptive and beyond the eu's competence. some of the proposals in the report are not sufficiently detailed, for example the proposal to create a european standard on mobility in vocational education and training. in view of the above, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the new erasmus+ programme is a great opportunity for young people. it is also a support for the european labour market and a response to challenges. the ageing of the population and the continuing rise in youth unemployment mean that we have to look for new solutions. we have always placed a great deal of emphasis on academic exchanges, and the labour market is also in need of highly qualified professionals. the economy also needs good workers with a lower level of education, who are experts in their field, have a good knowledge and do their job well. moving to another country and being able to practise your profession in a new environment is a unique experience that can help young people become more open, flexible, mobile and independent. and these are the qualities that employers are looking for most these days. such exchanges also provide an opportunity to compare the technologies and traditions of different countries. this programme will enable the most talented young people, as well as the poor who cannot afford private travel, to broaden their educational horizons and improve their skills. erasmus+ will help to level the playing field for young people, which will also support the balanced development of the economies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report on erasmus+ and other tools to support mobility in vocational education and training highlights the role of mobility, international traineeships and placements in improving employability and tackling skills mismatches. the report recalls the 'copenhagen process' launched in 2002 by eu education ministers to strengthen cooperation and make vocational education and training in europe more attractive. further developing the european education area is important not only for the improvement of educational and life opportunities for young people in europe, but also for the development of intercultural dialogue and eu integration. i agree with the theses put forward in the report that the prerequisite for increased mobility is more effective teaching of foreign languages, especially in vocational schools; insufficient language skills are the first barrier to mobility in europe. information on erasmus+ programmes and other tools supporting mobility in vocational training should also be disseminated to potential stakeholders. the strengthening of the mobility of participants in vocational training, its internationalisation, could contribute to the recognition and rehabilitation of vocational training in those countries where it has been subject to many years of degradation and marginalisation in favour of general education. a well-functioning vocational training system is the first condition for a healthy labour market, low unemployment and the coherent development of smes, family businesses and craft enterprises, which are the pillars of the european economy. it should therefore be developed and integrated into the union's mobility programmes.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is the eu's programme for education, training, youth and sport. vocational education and training is a broad concept, usually defined at european level as a form of vocational training based on physical or practical activities, traditionally non-academic and entirely linked to a specific profession or professional or commercial activity. the final report voted in committee contains a number of positive ideas, such as a call to extend existing initiatives on mobility in vocational education and training in terms of accessibility, especially for disadvantaged families, and measures to facilitate integration into the labour market, but also contains some problematic issues, such as a call to finance language support for all participants in erasmus+ programmes without language restrictions, and unnecessary recommendations, such as the creation of an eu e-mobility card and the recognition of erasmus+ names and graphic symbols as trade marks, with the possibility of their use only in erasmus+ publications. in addition, the report calls on the member states to introduce a 'dual education' approach to secondary education, which is too prescriptive and beyond the eu's competence. some of the proposals in the report are not sufficiently detailed, for example the proposal to create a european standard on mobility in vocational education and training. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is one of the most well-known and widely disseminated eu programmes, which has changed the lives of over 3 million students across the european union. the programme aims to increase skills, employment opportunities and develop qualities such as tolerance, intercultural competence and civic engagement. in its report, parliament rightly drew attention to the problems of financing this and other education programmes, as well as the existing bureaucratic burdens that significantly limit access to erasmus+. the ep document also stressed that erasmus should be as widely accessible as possible, contributing not only to increased mobility and cultural tolerance, but also to promoting the eu's innovative and digital economy. in a time of globalising markets, promoting the education and mobility of young people is crucial for europe's competitiveness. the union needs entrepreneurial people who have experience of dealing with other cultural and organisational work and learning places.
in writing. ‒ educational and training mobility is undoubtedly an important part of the educational pathway today and contributes to improving the quality of education and creating employment opportunities. it also plays a key role in strengthening and implementing the ideas of active citizenship, intercultural dialogue and working skills in a multicultural environment. in this context, i would like to stress the importance and need for proper funding, preceded by proper performance evaluation, of the youth employment initiative proposed by the european council in response to the persistent problem of high levels of youth unemployment. similarly, the erasmus+ programme, in all its complexity, including, inter alia, school education, higher education and its international dimension, vocational education and training, and adult learning, represents a significant advance in the field of educational and training mobility. i therefore stress once again its importance and, in line with the letter of the report i supported, i call for coherence and coordination between the structural funds, including the esf, and programmes such as erasmus+, at national, regional and local level, in order to achieve effective financial management.
in writing. ‒ the basis for this report is the belief that control at transnational level is necessary. institutions/bodies concerned include, for example, the imf, the g20, the financial stability board and the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the rapporteur believes that it would be better for the eu to have one seat/vote in these institutions and, if this is not possible, for the eu's negotiating mandate to be agreed ex ante with the european parliament. i fundamentally disagree with the assumptions and conclusions of this report. i don't think that acting internationally is weakening democracy. i do not think that the member states should give up their seats in international forums for the sake of one seat for the eu. i do not think that the european commission should represent all eu member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the member states. in most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a traditional form of fishing, a way of life and an important source of livelihood. special measures and support are needed to ensure the growth and development of areas dependent on coastal fisheries. the report calls on the commission to step up its efforts to protect coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions and to adopt a definition of traditional coastal fishing that is consistent with the specific characteristics of the different regions. the report also looks at ways in which diversification and innovation could help coastal regions. it also analysed how the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) has diversified the economic structure of coastal regions. the rapporteur stresses the importance of innovation and scientific research for coastal regions. i voted in favour of the report because of its content and the nature of the document.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which provides a framework for the activities of eu vessels fishing outside eu territorial waters. the eu's fishing fleet is one of the largest in the world and ranks among the top three fishing powers in the world, so its reach is important. eu-flagged vessels may fish in waters outside the eu in two ways: on the high seas (areas outside national jurisdiction) and in the territorial waters of third countries under a bilateral fisheries agreement. the report addresses a number of issues related to fisheries in the territorial waters of third countries, including the obligation to strengthen cooperation between individual rfmos and ensure consistency between their measures, the training of fisheries inspectors and crew members, the transparency of fisheries partnership agreements, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and the promotion of social and environmental standards in the fisheries sector in the third country concerned. i voted to accept the report.
madam president, last month many of us were personally touched by the attacks in brussels. we should act together if we want to ensure our security. the only answer is prevention. this means an obligatory model of sharing information among law enforcement in real time with coordination at european level, first of all cooperation on intelligence, implementation of pnr and ‘smart borders’ control with guarantees of real-time monitoring and processing of the data. we need to adopt pnr in its current form. fast work is also needed on the directive on counterterrorism, which is the key to fighting all kinds of supporters of terrorism and criminalising their activities. we need a coordinated approach to foreign fighters and returnees to challenge the radicalisation processes, to offer education for young people grappling with extremism in the public area, and to consider how to counteract the growing the role of the darknet in the promotion and support for terrorist groups. all of those elements are important for better prevention and achieving victory in combating terrorism.
in writing. until now, systematic checks on persons crossing the external borders have only been applied to third-country nationals. the amendment to the schengen borders code introducing mandatory and systematic checks on eu citizens based on the use of appropriate databases at the external borders should be adopted before the summer break. this will help to counter terrorist threats in europe. in addition, the commission should also present without delay a decision on the interoperability and systematic access to and exchange of information from european union-wide databases such as ecris, sis ii, vis, eurodac and the widespread deployment of an eu automated fingerprinting system that would be integrated into sis. the pilot project exists, but first it must be fully legalised. this is necessary to prevent further terrorist attacks. moreover, the systematic exchange of information contained in national databases between member states is also important. in addition, the european commission must ensure that data and information can be exchanged between agencies such as europol and frontex without further legal obstacles.
in writing. the successive attacks by the islamic state remind us that europe's and the world's fight against terrorism is a process that will not end quickly. the threat persists despite increased precautions and increased controls, especially in vulnerable areas that could be potential targets for attackers. it is necessary to continue to pursue activities in the field of the control, prevention and prosecution of crime, in particular in situations where it may be linked to terrorism. it is also important to be aware that the eu's internal and external security are closely interlinked and it is virtually impossible to achieve one without taking the other into account. in this context, it is particularly important to seal borders, to cooperate between member states and their authorities responsible for security and law enforcement, and to exchange efficiently the information needed to ensure reliable controls at the eu's external borders. security, control, migration, protection of sensitive data are issues that are relevant to our daily lives, and their boundaries will have to be redefined. europe is currently undergoing a change in the social order, and this is not a process that we can stop, but we should work to ensure that this new order guarantees us the protection of european life and values and security.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask you if you don't think that if the european bank is robbing the europeans of eighty billion a month by printing money without cover, then maybe the business of these people is to, like robin hood, steal that money back.
in writing. we already debated in the ep in may last year about tightening the rules on anti-money laundering and tax evasion. under the provisions of the then adopted anti-money laundering directive (amld), banks, financial institutions and persons with a legitimate interest in accessing the central register are obliged to pay attention to suspicious transactions. the discovery of the biggest financial scam in history, the panama papers, which revealed information on more than 200,000 offshore companies and their secret owners, who had committed billions in tax fraud, was the result of the insight and cooperation of hundreds of journalists affiliated with the international consortium of investigative journalists (icij). efforts should be stepped up in all member states to combat tax fraud effectively. the existence of tax havens should be categorically opposed. a european-wide blacklist of them, along with a list of where the information is hidden, should be drawn up and sanctions imposed on the organisations that use them. and representatives of the leaked law firm mossack fonseca and representatives of the panamanian government should appear before the special parliamentary committee on taxation, taxe ii.
in writing. panama's geographical location is favourable to the development of international trade and banking services. panama's reputation as a tax haven has been built over 100 years. the attractiveness of offshore companies operating in tax havens lies, among others, in: complete secrecy of information (including access to data on company owners), low or zero income taxation, no requirement for tax returns. tax evasion and money laundering through offshore have thus become some of the most lucrative financial crimes for many entities around the world. the law firm mossack fonseca, which has been in operation since 1977, has achieved perfection in financial arrangements based on the concealment of the real beneficiaries and bank accounts associated with the company. the scale of the activities disclosed requires the urgent establishment of an effective common policy to combat tax havens. while there are international rules on tax transparency and the eu, in cooperation with the member states, has developed a number of tools (a list of international tax havens, three fiscal reform packages focusing mainly on the exchange of information within the eu, agreements with third countries to exchange information also outside the eu), the panama papers scandal should be used to improve the effectiveness of existing measures and thus tackle such fraud.
in writing. it is good that the council and the commission have brought matters of tax avoidance and money laundering to the ep's attention as a matter of urgency. this is the result of the recent panama papers scandal, which showed that tax evasion is a mass phenomenon. it goes without saying that this has negative effects on economies, on the equality of market participants, on the increasing inequalities between people and, finally, on the ability to solve serious social problems. the scary thing is that this one case alone exposes the information of over 200,000 companies and their owners who, in order to avoid paying taxes, register their companies in tax havens. since this is not the first case of this kind, i am in favour of not ending the case with a debate. the european parliament should set up a special committee to deal with all tax matters in the european union. a european-wide blacklist of tax havens and places where information on tax avoidance is deliberately withheld should be established. the union's solutions, as well as those of the individual member states, must lead to the reduction of these pathologies.
mr president, i think we can all agree in this chamber that it is unacceptable that large corporations should not pay taxes in the country where they make their profits, and that small and mediumsized enterprises should bear the heaviest burden of taxation. it is particularly pleased that president juncker seems to share this view, which has not always been the case in the past, judging by his previous activities. country-by-country reporting seems to be the right tool to combat tax avoidance, not tax harmonisation. that is why i do think that the proposal put forward by commissioner hill is a good step in the right direction. it is noteworthy that corporations are required to disclose tax information to the public. it is important that the disclosed reports also include subsidiaries registered in countries designated by the eu as tax havens. however, it is worrying that only about 10 to 15 per cent of multinational corporations would be affected, as the commission's proposal would only make publicly reportable companies with an annual turnover of more than eur 75 million. and here's where you might want to think about changing that point of the proposal.
mr president, i welcome the proposal by the commission on mandatory disclosure by multinational companies of income tax information. this is yet another legislative initiative aimed at improving tax collection and reducing the scope for tax evasion and aggressive tax planning in europe. it responds to the growing demand from european citizens for more transparency and fairness in tax policies. i believe we are all keen to ensure as conducive a business environment as possible for european companies, but at the same time we expect these companies to pay their fair share of taxes in our countries. the draft directive requires multinational companies to make public information on a well-defined and limited set of tax information. it does not impose on them an additional administrative burden, as all the required information is already reported by companies to their shareholders and respective national tax authorities. it helps to re-establish a level playing field between eu and non-eu companies and it reduces the scope for aggressive tax planning by large multinationals. it also raises public awareness of tax issues and strengthens the sense of corporate social responsibility among european businesses. however, having said that, i would like to call on the commission and parliament not to go too far with the new requirements. the need for more tax transparency must not hamper the competitive position of european enterprises vis-à-vis their international rivals. our ambition should be to ensure that the eu becomes the most attractive and business—friendly region globally.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the proposals of the european commission. i want to draw your attention to three things. firstly, there will be changes to the accounting directive, which is a horizontal instrument. the issue of the introduction of reporting requirements by companies that operate on the european market but are established in other countries. this is what we've been asking for a long time, and it should improve the fairness of the functioning of the fiscal element. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that a european, eu list of specific jurisdictions that do not meet the relevant financial reporting requirements will actually help us to combat all of this more effectively. there were a lot of calls for ambition from the european commission, that this is not enough, that more is needed. what is more important to me is that these are the laws that will have a real chance of being implemented in our reality, and they will only be implemented if the proposed ones remain in the original proposed form.
your highness! a close understanding of the challenges and threats is a prerequisite for the effective conduct of both policies. this shared perception of danger has significantly undermined the relationship with the east, with russia, with the referendum in the netherlands, the outcome of that referendum. unfortunately, i must note that the language you use to describe these challenges has also changed significantly since the last consultation. that description is significantly russian-centric, madam high representative. after all, not even once in this context was ukraine mentioned. we need to seriously consider the threats we're facing. also the reasons why the dutch people expressed their will in this way. wasn't that russian stratcom?
and i'll just go back to that last part, which is that normal empires conduct their politics through the military. we don't have an army, we do it with a checkbook, or by buying politicians: in poland to join the union, and politicians in turkey, in ukraine. this policy has been a failure since the last referendum in the netherlands. but we are facing another threat. and i want to say this: right now, all the terrorist groups in the world are competing to be the first to make ms. federica mogherini cry again, because nothing encourages aggression like showing weakness, like showing tears. and you, ms. mogherini, are a threat to the european union, showing weakness. and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
madam president! recently, the european union authorities have found it much easier to attack european countries than to defend them in concrete situations. indeed, in the last few years it has been easier to attack hungary incessantly than, for example, to defend the right of poland to a fair investigation after the death of our president in the smolensk crash, or to return the material evidence needed for this investigation. we have been working with you for two years, madam vice-president, almost two years, and although the european parliament has supported poland's rights in these matters, we have not heard anything concrete. just as your predecessor did nothing to help us with this for a few years, so now we don't even hear about this problem. it's actually easier to do a round-the-world rally like this -- yemen, libya, solving all the world's problems -- than to help a particular country in europe that is entitled to help from the european union.
in writing. 2016 will be a year of major developments in the field of the community's foreign and defence policy. in june, the high representative will present the new global strategy for the eu's foreign and security policy. in july, the nato summit will be held in warsaw, and in the autumn, the new space strategy will be presented. in this context, i would like to highlight three points. the eu and every european country should be steering towards a continuous improvement of defence capabilities through investment in technology. our european technology base must become even more competitive and should receive constant impetus for development. the csdp is visible through its activities in a variety of places, from bosnia to ukraine to african countries. our actions must be closely and methodologically monitored and widely consulted with our nato and un partners if they are to be of added value. one of the most important areas that support european security and defence is space technology. european space programmes such as galileo and copernicus are crucial for earth observation, borders, maritime traffic and positioning. we should support them with all our strength in future policies, especially since they are designed to be planned and implemented over many years. with the right funding, not only will these programs survive, but we will be safe.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for your presentation of the facts, your assessment of the situation. let's be aware that we are debating the situation of a country that has a population of 150,000, 4400 km2, which is simply defenseless against its neighbors. the budget of nagorno-karabakh is roughly equal to the value of two or three missiles that can be aimed at any time against this state. so, dialogue, dialogue, finding peaceful solutions, understanding and using also our capacity to act towards armenia and azerbaijan. i don't think we can just blame russia for the arms exports. this weapon is already in the possession of the neighbors of nagorno-karabakh. but we should also engage in dialogue and put pressure on both russia and turkey on this issue, because only peace and quiet, negotiations and the implementation of the minsk agreements can be an alternative.
madam president! 99 years ago, pope benedict xv, in his appeal for peace, called for the right of armenia to freedom and security to be guaranteed in a special way after the end of the war. we all know how much, how hard history has been on this nation - i'm not just talking about the genocide that happened a hundred years ago, but also about the dramatic beginnings of armenian independence in the late 1980s and 1990s. armenia has a special right to secure borders. the armenian population in nagorno-karabakh has a special right to security. we have a special duty to remember them. we know how much pressure armenia has been under as russia has pushed for its participation in the eurasian economic community and for a softening of relations with the european union. we have a duty to remember them. the more we are there, the more we can contribute to their safety in this dramatic isolation.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-cuba political dialogue and cooperation agreement (2016/2651 ((rsp)).
mr president, i believe that this agreement is not only going to boost economic cooperation and exchanges between cuba and the eu, but it will also contribute to updating the cuban economy and society. i firmly believe that allocating a certain amount of money will have a substantial effect on the development of the island. it will enable the modernisation of the country in order to achieve a sustainable agricultural sector and the use of natural resources, such as water, in a more efficient and more focused way. but the most important thing for me – the most sensitive matter for me – remains the same. it is the human rights dialogue. it is our prerogative to ensure that the everyday lives of the cuban people and society as a whole will be positively affected by this agreement. in recent years i have had the honour and privilege of meeting cuban dissidents who fight daily for their freedom and democratic change. i hope that because of this agreement we will get closer to making a positive and peaceful change, as once happened in poland as well.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by sandra kalniete, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world (hyperlink "http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to highlight the role of transatlantic cooperation in addressing many of the issues raised in the report. i'm continuing to highlight russia's neo-imperialist policies and concerns about the security of my region. i support peace and stabilisation efforts in our southern neighbourhood, but i am concerned about the effectiveness of humanitarian and development aid delivered in conflict areas, which is essential to limit the migration crisis we are facing.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 april 2016.
the next item is the report by mr tamás meszerics, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia (2015/2220(ini) (a8-0051/2016).
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the author of the resolution rightly points out that strengthening our relations with all the countries of central asia on the basis of commonly shared values is in the vital strategic, political and economic interest of the european union. this position should be supported, but at the same time we must be fully aware of the difficulty of formulating our common policy towards such a multi-dimensional region, struggling with the problems inherited from the soviet period, balancing between russia, china and the west, where the relations between the individual states are generally bad because of disputes over borders and resources. however, the report cannot be seen as supporting the view that increasing macro-financial assistance should be one of the priorities in formulating a new strategy for the region, and the report does not indicate specific sources of such additional funding. moreover, i believe that too little emphasis has been placed on kazakhstan's positive, stabilising role in the region as a whole. for example, it is separated from turkmenistan by a gap in the quality of cooperation with the european union and respect for human rights, even after the recent legal changes mentioned in the report. i would like to mention here poland's fruitful cooperation with the government of kazakhstan in the field of repatriation of poles and descendants of exiles living in the republic, youth exchanges within the framework of educational programmes and developing economic cooperation. however, i strongly share the rapporteur's concerns about the poor level of human rights protection by national governments, especially in uzbekistan and turkmenistan, and the growing threat of the expansion of islamist extremist movements.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 april 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. strengthening the european union's cooperation with central asia is of increasing importance to europe. the eu's strategy for reaching an agreement with the countries of central asia would require a re-examination of the partners' approach to cooperation. although these countries are very attractive economically, owing to their considerable mineral resources such as oil and natural gas, there are certain aspects that prevent closer international relations from being established. barriers to more effective cooperation are the continuing problems in central asian countries, such as lack of freedom of speech, lack of respect for fundamental human rights and property, lack of rule of law, and widespread discrimination against women. relations with uzbekistan, turkmenistan, kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan should be strengthened, as this will make a significant contribution to solving their regional problems. despite legislative reforms, the situation regarding respect for democratic standards and human rights remains poor. the priority task for europe should be to promote and strengthen values such as democracy, good governance, freedom of the media, freedom of the individual. a more intensive dialogue should be established on infrastructure development, energy production and environmental protection. as a result, economic cooperation will bring greater cohesion to the respective regions of asian countries.
since the european council in march, the pace of events has accelerated dramatically. two of them are particularly important to me: the terrorist attacks on the european union capital in belgium and the result of the referendum in the netherlands. in the first case, i would like to hear from all three presidents what you have done and what you intend to do to ensure the safety of the institutions under your control, the thousands of employees and the thousands of officials from the member states of the european union who are visiting brussels. this is very important for the administrative implementation of all well-formulated council conclusions. as regards the second case, the result of the referendum in the netherlands undermined the ability to implement the cfsp/csdp towards the east, towards russia. i expect the leaders of the european union to come up with a solution to this problem that is more sophisticated than just talking about working with russia and focusing solely on the southern direction. and another point: the deep interference in polish affairs and the brutal language of the resolution to be voted on today, i think is a typical substitute theme, distracting attention from the inability to meet the real challenges. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer. – madam, i do not know how my intervention was interpreted into various languages, yet i think that the future will show there is a clear link between all of these issues. i was also referring to the administrative ability to solve these problems after the terrorist attacks.
madam president! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between turkey and the union is generating divergent assessments and strong emotions. we experienced this in the march session, when the details of the agreement were not yet known. but we have to say what the reasons were, why we had to make this deal. it's the effect of losing the ability to protect our external borders. all those who delayed the development of common solutions, including the restoration of law and control at the external borders of the european union, have contributed to this. the agreement between turkey and the union is a difficult, complicated and delicate compromise. we're all aware of that. we are also aware of the logistical, material and legal challenges we have to face, but it also brings real help to the refugees who are in turkey. these unprecedented situations also require extraordinary solutions, but this does not mean that the law of the strongest should apply or that in fighting for europe we should give up our values. i also wanted to say that we hope that, following the agreement with turkey, following the malta summit of 11 november, forms of cooperation with other countries will also be developed, since the internationalisation of the migration crisis is the only way to solve it. i would also like to emphasize with satisfaction the european council's concern for the situation in the steel sector, among other things. as i said, it's 300,000 jobs and hundreds of jobs related to this sector. this also applies to the situation in my country, poland. whether the situation on agricultural markets, which has been correctly observed, in particular on the milk market, has led to a real decline in farmers' incomes and to disturbances on those markets. and the third issue is the security of gas supply, and in particular the transparency of international agreements on the supply of energy resources.
mr. chairman, please! on january 15th, we asked the european commission about the legal basis for the commission's interference in poland's internal affairs. we asked you to state the treaty basis for this interference. three months have passed and we have not received a reply, although the deadline for its issue is six weeks. the commission cannot identify the treaty grounds for this interference, because there are none. interference in the internal affairs of the member states is contrary to the principles of the union's treaties. i ask that the vote be adjourned until the legal basis is established. there's a saying, "doctor, but yourself". you want to fix the law in poland, and you're breaking european law. if you harm poland, you harm europe.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as when a large company closes a factory or relocates outside the eu or during the global financial and economic crisis. this application from sweden concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 793 710 for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 redundant workers, mainly in the upper norrland region. 470 workers were made redundant by the volvo truck operation emea group following the reduction at its umeå plant, and the remaining 177 by 4 suppliers and downstream manufacturers. i fully support actions that generate growth and jobs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is crucial to keeping european workers competitive in the labour market. the fund supports the redundancies of large enterprises, which are often the main employers in the region, by offering them the opportunity not only to improve their skills in the profession but also to completely re-qualify themselves. in the case of the volvo plant in umeå, the redundancies were the result of a decrease in the production and export of heavy trucks to new asian producers. moreover, the region, whose capital is umeå, is known for its highly skilled industries, while the majority of the redundant workers have only a secondary education. the european globalisation adjustment fund was therefore necessary in this case. however, it should be borne in mind that globalisation also has a major impact on the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. unfortunately, they cannot count on such generous aid, even though they employ more people in total and account for a larger share of gdp than individual large enterprises. it would therefore be appropriate to create a similar support mechanism for european smes.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they lose their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, for example when a large company closes a factory or relocates outside the eu or when we are faced with a global financial and economic crisis. on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal to mobilise the egf. article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that during the year a maximum of 0,5% of the available budget (eur 150 million in 2011 prices) may be mobilised to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the commission wishes to use eur 380 000 (0.23% of the maximum annual budget in 2016 prices) to cover monitoring and data collection, information, knowledge base building, administrative and technical support and evaluation activities. i support measures that, when implemented, create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the egf is the appropriate instrument for such a policy and an effective tool offering the right value for money for the reintegration of redundant workers back into the labour market. in view of the above, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 1/2016 consists of two parts. the first concerns the transfer of funds to a new instrument to provide emergency support within the eu. the second part concerns the transfer to the european counter-terrorism centre (ectc). at the beginning of march, the commission adopted a new instrument for emergency support and humanitarian aid within the eu, in particular to help member states facing an immigration and refugee crisis. the commission's humanitarian branch will be responsible for managing the new instrument, which will be implemented by partner organisations such as un agencies and ngos. the project also includes a transfer of eur 2 million from the internal security fund to strengthen the ectc, which is to be the eu's main counter-terrorism centre. given the clear need for emergency support and its rapid delivery within the eu, as well as the need to strengthen the ectc in the fight against the growing terrorist threat, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget for 2016 is dedicated to creating the budgetary structure for the proposed new instrument for providing support in emergency situations across the union and to making available an amount of eur 100 million for emergency financing needs. 1.8 million illegal migrants crossed the eu's borders, but the european agency frontex estimates the number to be much higher, as many people have not been registered. this is an exceptional situation in which a significant number of people are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance, which is beyond the organisational capacity of individual member states. i welcome the european commission's proposal that the resources for the new financial instrument be transferred from the resources currently allocated to the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif). the proposed amount to be transferred from the amif takes into account both the immediate financial needs of the new instrument and the amif's expected need for funds in the coming months. the commission will also closely monitor the implementation of the 2016 budget in order to propose at any time an amending budget to provide the necessary financial resources for both the amif and the emergency support instrument. this will allow for the needs to change during the year.
in writing. ‒ the partial replacement of the members of the court of auditors is carried out in accordance with article 286 (2) tfeu, which provides that the council adopts the list of candidates proposed by the member states after consulting the european parliament. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the appointment and renewal of the appointment shall be voted on in plenary on the basis of a report by the cont committee. applicants must fulfil the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu: the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are particularly qualified to hold such posts. their independence must be beyond question. i voted for the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the partial replacement of the members of the court of auditors is carried out in accordance with article 286 (2) tfeu, which provides that the council adopts the list of candidates proposed by the member states after consulting the european parliament. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the appointment and renewal of the appointment shall be voted on in plenary on the basis of a report by the cont committee. applicants must fulfil the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu: the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are particularly qualified to hold such posts. their independence must be beyond question. i voted for the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the partial replacement of the members of the court of auditors is carried out in accordance with article 286 (2) tfeu, which provides that the council adopts the list of candidates proposed by the member states after consulting the european parliament. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the appointment and renewal of the appointment shall be voted on in plenary on the basis of a report by the cont committee. applicants must fulfil the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu: the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are particularly qualified to hold such posts. their independence must be beyond question. i voted for the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the partial replacement of the members of the court of auditors is carried out in accordance with article 286 (2) tfeu, which provides that the council adopts the list of candidates proposed by the member states after consulting the european parliament. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the appointment and renewal of the appointment shall be voted on in plenary on the basis of a report by the cont committee. applicants must fulfil the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu: the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are particularly qualified to hold such posts. their independence must be beyond question. i voted for the candidate.
in writing. ‒ the partial replacement of the members of the court of auditors is carried out in accordance with article 286 (2) tfeu, which provides that the council adopts the list of candidates proposed by the member states after consulting the european parliament. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the appointment and renewal of the appointment shall be voted on in plenary on the basis of a report by the cont committee. applicants must fulfil the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu: the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are particularly qualified to hold such posts. their independence must be beyond question. i voted for the candidate.
in writing. ‒ janusz wojciechowski, among all the candidates put forward and endorsed by the european parliament, has a clear vision of the functioning of the european court of auditors, has experience as a judge, as a legislator at national and european level, and unique audit experience (six years as president of the supreme audit office). that's a unique qualification to serve as an eto judge. his candidacy was the only one to receive negative reviews. the ep's decision was political. i'm counting on the council to make a positive decision.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is an active substance used in plant protection products and authorised in all member states. it is subject to strict rules which allow its use as long as it does not have negative effects on human health and the environment. the marketing authorisation for glyphosate expires on 30 june 2016. the proposed renewal of the marketing authorisation objected was granted in accordance with regulation 1107/2009. it provides for a detailed safety and environmental impact assessment to be carried out by efsa and germany (acting as rapporteur). the investigation concluded that glyphosate does not cause unacceptable risks when used appropriately this result is consistent with other assessments. in addition, the implementing measure provides that the substance poe-tallowamine (mixed with glyphosate to produce a pesticide) should be excluded from the production of plant protection products containing glyphosate and that a negative list of similar substances will be issued in july 2016. given that the document does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, does not respect the precautionary principle and is therefore not in line with the basic act, regulation 1107/2009, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a substance used in the production of herbicides. in addition to its use in horticulture and forestry, it is used primarily for crop protection in agriculture, and since its introduction in 1974, glyphosate production has increased nearly 260-fold. i think that's a testament to its efficacy and safety for human, animal and plant health. in line with the 2002 findings, the european commission proposed by means of an implementing regulation the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate. i believe that one of the most popular and effective ingredients used in the production of plant protection products should not be withdrawn from the market without scientifically sound arguments and solid evidence of its harmful effects on humans and the environment. we must not create any additional difficulties for our farmers, who have already been in a difficult situation in recent years. at the same time, we must remember that if we ban the use of substances that have been tested and proven, we increase the risk of using substitutes that are much more harmful and are distributed illegally. and that would be a very unwise decision.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is one of the most widely used herbicides by european farmers, foresters and gardeners, and it is currently difficult to find an alternative. on the other hand, there are rumors that it may be carcinogenic, but there is no conclusive evidence. it is therefore good that today's resolution, thanks to the efforts of our group, the group of the european people's party, has acquired a more balanced character than in the original version. on the one hand, we called for the renewal of the approval of glyphosate for 7 years, not 15 years, as proposed by the european commission, but on the condition that it is used only for professional use, and at the same time asking the relevant authorities to re-examine the case. hopefully, the final decision on the approval of glyphosate will take due account of the fact that i mentioned that the possible withdrawal of this active substance from the market will cause serious disruption in european agriculture, which may endanger the competitiveness of our production in relation to third countries that do not plan such actions.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, reports have circulated in europe about a controversial chemical called glyphosate, which is widely used as an ingredient in plant protection products. recent studies have shown that this substance is a real health hazard and increases the risk of cancer in humans and animals. however, the european commission has proposed to renew the approval of this substance for a further 15 years. in many countries, glyphosate is still allowed, while in others it is completely banned. in the context of a single market and unrestricted trade in goods, it is important that the union has a unified position on this issue, and therefore the european parliament's response calling on the european commission to reconsider or withdraw its decision on the renewal of the approval of this substance is justified. the union's objective should be to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and to improve the functioning of the internal market, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of a parliament resolution calling on the commission to take immediate action to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ in many ways, the sandra kalniete report reflects the european commission's intentions for the creation of a military dimension to the eu. it is clear from its content that 'the main objective should be to promote permanent multinational troops and voluntary joint defence forces and to formulate a community defence policy which should ultimately lead to community defence'. as i believe that defence policy should remain a matter for the sovereign decision of the member states and nato remains the foundation of european security, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in many ways, the sandra kalniete report reflects the european commission's intentions for the creation of a military dimension to the eu. one of the paragraphs states that 'the main objective should be to promote permanent multinational troops and voluntary joint defence forces and to formulate a community defence policy which should ultimately lead to community defence'. defence policy should remain a matter for the sovereignty of the member states and no action should be taken to increase the eu's role in this area. the foundation of european security remains nato. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - years of peaceful coexistence are coming to an end. the union must adapt to a new, complex and complex reality. therefore, in my view, one of the key objectives of our global foreign and security policy strategy should be to strengthen the eu's defence capability. the european security strategy of 2003 described threats that are now partly obsolete, which is why it is so important that the union develops a new global strategy that addresses the most important and urgent security challenges. the european parliament's report rightly outlines the need to take action to create a european defence union. because relying on the united states and nato forces in the face of so many threats in our immediate neighborhood can be risky. moreover, the need to focus on the security of the region first, rather than on all conflicts, as outlined in the document, seems to be the most appropriate. otherwise, the community may lose credibility. i am glad that parliament has proposed such a sound and appropriate analysis of the european union in a changing global environment, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing crises, both external and internal. the main challenges are migration, the situation in ukraine, but also terrorism, brexit and the economic situation in many member states. to counter them effectively, long-term solutions should be the main priority, not just short-term and piecemeal ones. in this context, compromise and solidarity are essential. the eu must speak with one voice on issues that affect our common security, such as the migration crisis, the conflicts in ukraine and syria, and energy security. a stable neighbourhood, as one of the essential conditions for international security, is a priority. the effects of political instability are being felt today in the wave of refugees seeking refuge in europe. the eu's eastern neighbourhood should therefore continue to be supported in its efforts to create conditions conducive to stability and prosperity based on the rule of law and respect for human rights. in addition, consistent cooperation in defence research, industrial base and cyber defence will be key in the coming years. the joint use of military capabilities, in particular of multinational military units such as the eurocorps, will contribute to a more efficient use of defence resources, while increasing the benefits of scale through mutual cooperation. however, such ambitious goals require adequate funding. it is therefore necessary to reflect in the eu budget the priorities of the eu global strategy.
in writing. ‒ the european union is very often trying to play a role in global politics that it is not meant to play. the eu was created from the outset with the desire for closer economic integration, rather than a desire to duplicate the role of the institutions that were created to deal with military security. defence matters are and should remain a matter for the exclusive discretion of the member states. the attempt to extend the powers of the european institutions to this area is incompatible with the fundamental values on which the eu is built. the only institution that can effectively support european countries in the development of their defence policy is the north atlantic alliance. it is thanks to close institutional cooperation with the united states that we have military capabilities that are of real value. i agree with many of the diagnoses in this report, but i think the solutions proposed are wrong. the european union, faced with an immigration crisis, has no capacity to play a greater role in shaping the security policies of its members. the failures of member states in the fight against terrorism show that instead of looking for new solutions, we need to learn more from our american partners. instead of multiplying tasks and objectives, we need to better enforce existing legislation and to be more effective in the tasks that lie ahead. i do not agree with the idea of increasing the eu's role in the defence policy of the member states, because this would undermine the integrity and effectiveness of nato's action. i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia underlines that the new eu strategy for central asia is adopted in the context of the growing importance of the region and the eu's increased engagement in neighbouring afghanistan, the extension of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian sea region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies, and the eu's energy security interests. the report also identifies security threats and challenges that require cooperation between central asia and the eu. the eu's efforts to improve economic and political stability in a region whose geopolitical position is becoming increasingly complex and fragile due to the growing conflict of interests between the russian federation and the eu in this area and the vulnerability to the influence of extremist and terrorist groups operating in afghanistan, iran and pakistan should be supported. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in june 2007, the european union adopted a strategy for a new partnership with central asia in recognition of the region's growing importance for the eu, especially in the areas of security, stability and diversification of energy sources. this strategy sets the framework for the union's relations with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the 2007 strategy identified seven main areas of cooperation. these are: democratisation, human rights, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, sustainable environment and water, common threats and challenges, intercultural dialogue. most of these priorities have not lost their relevance. despite the progress made in relations with the countries of central asia, there is a need to intensify cooperation, especially in the fields of trade and energy. a similar position was taken in the ep report, which stressed the need to strengthen economic ties, eu support for democratic change and better cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. furthermore, the report rightly noted that a differentiated approach based on conditionality and incentives is needed to achieve better results both bilaterally and regionally.
in writing. ‒ central asia is a region of immense political and economic importance, which has been in the orbit of many actors since the collapse of the soviet union. russia, china and the united states are trying to strengthen their presence and pursue their own economic interests there. europe should also be present in the region and take advantage of its advantageous position. the countries of the region present varying levels of economic development and political stability, but there is no doubt that the european union should deepen and continue cooperation with each central asian country. this cooperation must be multi-faceted, taking into account economic exchanges, the common fight against terrorism and radicalisation, and the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. we cannot, of course, ignore the problems these young states face in building stable civil societies, but we cannot easily condemn and punish them for the difficult geopolitical and cultural conditions in which they have to operate. the european union should monitor the human rights situation in the region and provide all the assistance that the central asian states will need to build standards of democracy and the rule of law. we must place particular emphasis on the education of young people and the possibility of exchange of pupils and students. i agree with the present policy and future eu strategy towards central asia as set out in this report and therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in early february 2016, the ihr (international health regulations) emergency committee declared that the zika virus outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern. experts agreed that there is a strong suspicion of a causal relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly, but this has not yet been scientifically confirmed. the consensus was that there was an urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance, increase control of mosquito populations and accelerate work on diagnostic tests and vaccines for those at risk, especially pregnant women. the eu early warning and response system has been activated. i support the motion for a resolution on the zika virus, which calls for further research into how the virus is transmitted, the health effects of infection (including the suspected link to microcephaly) and ways to combat the virus (including the development of vaccines). however, i cannot support the proposals contained in many of the amendments, because they are either not based on scientific knowledge or are contrary to the powers of the commission. i voted to accept the procedural document.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, the ihr (international health regulations) emergency committee declared that the zika virus outbreak had created a public health emergency of international concern. experts agreed that there is a strong suspicion of a causal relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly, but this has not yet been scientifically confirmed. the consensus was that there was an urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance, increase control of mosquito populations and accelerate work on diagnostic tests and vaccines for those at risk, especially pregnant women. the eu early warning and response system has been activated. studies on the transmission of the virus, the health effects of infection (including a suspected link to microcephaly) and ways of controlling the virus (including the development of vaccines) should continue. unfortunately, the proposals in many of the amendments are not based on scientific knowledge (suggesting a link between the use of a larvicide called 'pyriproxyfen' and microcephaly, with the additional suspicion that this larvicide causes an increase in the number of cases of microcephaly), and are also contrary to eu competence. the zika virus cannot be used as an excuse to pressure certain countries to change their abortion laws. that's why i couldn't support the report.
in writing. ‒ nearly a year after the first reported cases of zika virus infection, new cases have been reported in 45 countries and the number of cases is rising, especially in brazil. worse, there is evidence that the virus contributes to birth defects and serious neurological complications. however, no effective treatment or prevention has yet been found. due to the high mobility of people, epidemiological risks on other continents should in no case be disregarded. the approaching summer season means an increased risk of transmission of the virus to europe. so we need a proper strategy, especially to control the mosquitoes that are the main carriers of zika. so far, the commission has allocated €10 million for research into the virus and the european medicines agency (ema) has set up an expert group to find drugs or vaccines against the virus. the european commission's activities should therefore be multi-pronged. the situation needs to be monitored further and support countries where the situation is most critical, increase eu citizens' awareness of preventive measures to avoid the spread of the virus and develop modern treatments.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus epidemic is a serious problem that the european union should be actively involved in addressing. we have the funding, the scientists and the research institutes to support the efforts to find an effective vaccine. there are alarming signs that the epidemic is spreading to other countries. the authorities of the south american countries should make it a priority to halt the epidemic and europe should support these efforts to the extent of its resources. such a pragmatic approach would deserve full support, but - as is often the case in this house - pragmatism very often loses out in the face of ideology. the reference to abortion in this text and the call for countries facing the effects of the zika virus epidemic to liberalize abortion laws is a mistake and a misunderstanding of the problem. i cannot support a resolution in which parliament wants to use the tragedy of so many women and children to promote abortion as a universal cure for all the problems of developing countries. taking a life is never the right thing to do, and in this particular case, it's not going to get us any closer to ending this epidemic. i support taking all necessary action to combat the zika epidemic, but i cannot agree with the demands for easier access to abortion that are in this text. that is why i voted against this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! we have just voted here on a resolution on the situation in poland, on the rule of law in poland. the peculiarity of this vote is that it says nothing about the rule of law in poland, but says a great deal about the rule of law in the european parliament and in the european union. the treaty on european union does not confer on the eu institutions the right to control and rule on such elements of the rule of law. these are internal affairs and internal competences of the member states. the european union is therefore demonstrating its lack of concern for the rule of law by not respecting the laws it has established for itself. it kind of makes us look like a joke as an institution and it's embarrassing. i am of course a polish patriot and i always try to defend polish interests, but at the moment i am simply defending the principles, at the moment i am speaking not as a polish patriot, but as a man of the political right, as a man to whom elementary integrity of conduct and the rule of law are not alien and are not indifferent. well, integrity of conduct is basically not only that we require others to observe their existing rights but also that we know, respect and obey our own laws, and if we find them wrong, we can change them. but let us respect the law so that we can also require others to respect the law. i therefore voted against this resolution, not because of its content, but because of the very fact that it was a clear violation of the law by the european parliament and a clear abuse of the rule of law.
mr. chairman, please! some of the actions of the polish government, like the attitude towards immigrants, the attitude towards family, are correct. yes, some of the measures, like the surveillance law and the nationalization of land, are like the aftermath of a nightmare of communism. however, the authors of the resolution on the situation in poland are not bothered by these socialist activities. the resolution mainly objects to the choice of the constitutional tribunal. in practice, it's about the bench, and not just in the court. but i voted against the resolution solely because the european union should not interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign poland. schuman, the founder of the european union, is turning over in his grave as he sees how the great idea of a community of nations is transformed into a creation whose only purpose is official power over all states, embellished by the fight against christianity and the family and the promotion of homosexuality.
the very choice of the day for this debate - a debate that is meant to condemn poland as a country that allegedly violates human rights and threatens democracy - is the best illustration of the real attitude of the current european union authorities to the cultural diversity of the peoples of europe. we are celebrating the 1050th anniversary of our baptism, we in poland are having a celebration right now and such a gift was sent to us today. but i want to say one thing: let's leave our national perspective. the day when article 7 is invoked against poland, hungary or any other european country, depriving one of these countries of rights in the european union, will be the beginning of the end of the european union. and it's up to you to decide whether or not to initiate this process.
in writing. the ep resolution does not promote dialogue and reconciliation in my country. it is politically motivated and does not take into account processes already initiated by the authorities in poland, such as the appointment, under the auspices of the marshal of the polish sejm, of a committee of experts to analyse the opinion of the venice commission. the resolution is a deep interference in poland's internal affairs, in a difficult constitutional dispute initiated by the previous government. similar constitutional disputes have occurred and are occurring in many member states with a complete lack of interest on the part of the ep. an example is the proposal by the centre-left government to dissolve the constitutional tribunal in luxembourg. the strasbourg session is the first european parliament meeting since the terrorist attacks in brussels, the heart of the european union and the seat of many other organisations, and the dutch referendum on the eu's association agreement with ukraine. i consider both events to be extremely important from the point of view of the effectiveness of the policies and processes taking place in the european union. compared to the polish case, they received a fraction of the ep's time. putting poland on a leash can be seen as a red herring that distracts from the really important problems and the lack of agreement on how to solve them.
in writing. ‒ as the vote on the resolution on the situation in poland is of great interest, i would like to share my views on the matter. in january, the ep held a debate on the rule of law in poland. the resolution was not adopted at the time, contrary to the accepted practice, because the ep believed that the crisis in poland would be overcome quickly. the fact that the polish government had asked the venice commission on its own initiative to assess the situation was welcomed. a month ago, the venice commission sent poland a document that thoroughly analyses the rule of law and formulates proposals for action for the polish government. unfortunately, in practice, none of these proposals have been implemented and the stalemate around the constitutional tribunal continues. in this situation, the ep has an obligation to express its opinion on the situation in poland. the paralysis of the activities of the icty cannot be accepted, as it undermines the independence of the judiciary, one of the pillars of a democratic state and the legal security of citizens. the ep resolution rightly expects the commission to continue to assess compliance with the fundamental principles on which the union is founded. the commission is the guardian of the treaties that poland has ratified. however, i expect eu member states to be treated equally in the area of legal and institutional matters. i also expect the polish government to cooperate with the commission and that any changes in poland will be made in accordance with the constitution.
in writing. ‒ the text of this resolution is proof of the bias and ill will of its inspirers and creators. poland is a democratic state in which citizens have elected a stable parliamentary majority in free elections. its main objective is to reform the state and restore its subjectivity on the european stage. unfortunately, the previous government could not accept the impending defeat and even before the elections, breaking the law and ignoring the basic principles of political culture, filled the vacant seats in the constitutional court. back then, in june 2015, no european institution even raised the issue of the breach of democratic principles and no mep shed a tear over the fate of the rule of law in poland. the actions taken subsequently by law and justice were only aimed at restoring normalcy, where the constitutional tribunal would not be a tool of the opposition against the government, but an independent and apolitical constitutional court. we listen carefully to the advice of our partners, but whether and how it is taken into account is a decision of the polish authorities alone. the crisis we are currently facing in poland is political in nature and its escalation is clearly beneficial for the opposition parties, as evidenced by the rejection of many compromise proposals submitted by the parliamentary majority. the involvement of the european institutions in this dispute does not bring us any closer to a solution. i voted against this harmful, unreliable and politically inspired text.
the question asked by raising the blue card. commissioner, i too believe that we can achieve a synthesis of security and freedom, but i would like to ask you, based on your experience, are you confident that the legal acts being drafted and prepared today will not be challenged effectively before the european court of justice? are there any solutions which risk an effective appeal to the european court of justice, and if so, what would you suggest?
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, marju and jan, and to thank vivienne for this initiative some years ago. we have a solution that provides harmonisation and creates a new data protection framework, building on trust. the general data protection regulation (gdpr) is, in this respect, a basis for further digital development. the directive is also very important as the first comprehensive instrument to regulate data protection for law enforcement. this instrument sets rules but allows law enforcement to carry out its duties due to a balance between privacy and security. the package is not perfect, but we have two years of implementation ahead of us. this time is crucial for some points. firstly, gdpr leaves certain technical issues for the implementing and delegated acts and flexibility for the national solutions. we should make sure that we do not lose the harmonisation and that we will not end up with 28 different frameworks again. secondly, while implementing gdpr we need to allow innovation to flourish. the use of big data is important for business but also for science and research, and in the end for personalised products and services for us as users. thirdly, be careful about smes and ensure that their obligations are not too excessive. the least we can do is make sure that appropriate guidance is prepared regarding obligations for smes. fourthly, on the privacy directive, we should aim to have a harmonised set of rules and look for a timely adjustment of this directive.
mr president, in the fight against terrorists, real-time monitoring and the exchange of data and information is crucial for strengthening our prevention capabilities. if we want to analyse the data, first we need to collect it under clear rules. the pnr directive is a good example of how to achieve a balance between security and privacy. we have introduced into the directive many data protection safeguards and principles that guarantee respect for fundamental rights. for instance, we have a purpose-limitation principle and the masking-out of data after six months. there is an established monitoring mechanism with a strong position for the data protection authorities, and a list of serious crimes. in addition, the eu pnr directive has a new section dedicated to data protection and privacy standards, explicitly mentioning the role of national data protection authorities as well as the obligation of appointing a data protection officer in each of the personal information units. but we feel there is a lack of binding obligations to share the data and have a centralised unit for collecting and processing pnr data. this approach gives us a concrete response to our security issues without sacrificing the privacy of our citizens – in fact, it includes the protection of data and privacy, and first and foremost citizens’ freedom and security.
let's close our eyes and imagine a map of turkey's entry into the european union. the neighbours of the union are iraq, iran and syria. isn't this a fascinating neighborhood? ladies and gentlemen! i'd like to avoid such double standards in this discussion. because if the same politicians who have been saying for years that we should not let turkey into the european union, or even get close to it, because there are no human rights there, and these same politicians are suddenly silent about these human rights, because we need to sign a refugee agreement with turkey quickly, because there are local elections in one of the big european union countries, well, that's an example of hypocrisy. i would like us to talk about turkey from a certain perspective, not under the pressure of current political events. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i understand that my honourable predecessor has stated the fact that the european parliament is not made of rubber, it will not expand, it will continue to have the same number of members, so it will be difficult to maintain the same number of representatives for each country. yes, of course that will mean a reduction in the number of members from the individual countries that are currently in the european union. that's obvious, we have adopted the principle that we don't leave beyond 751 members.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 april 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in my speech i would like to refer to the progress made by turkey in the implementation of the principles of non-discrimination, especially with regard to persons with disabilities. i am pleased that the social assistance system for disabled people in turkey is developing and more people are using different types of support, including institutional and semi-institutional care centres and services. however, as the commission communication shows, the employment rate of people with disabilities is still extremely low. public sector employment is less than 2%, and the private sector is even worse. i am concerned about this, especially since despite the turkish government's introduction of the civil service law and the setting of the employment standard for people with disabilities at 3%, there are still over 24,000 jobs for people with disabilities that remain unfilled.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission report 2015 on albania (2016/2896 ((rsp)).
madam president! i would like to join in the appreciation of our rapporteur, knut fleckenstein, but i can say that this is such a solid company that his report can always be either very good or even more than very good, that is, excellent. but listening to the minister and commissioner hahn, i have the impression that a certain set of issues is repeated no matter which country we are talking about, namely corruption, crime, the efficiency of the judicial system, minority issues, human issues. i think we should draw the attention of our albanian friends to economic matters - that they should get the economic momentum before they join the european union - and to social matters - to make them realize that our economy is a social market economy, and therefore social packages, social packages, to prepare the population for this apartment, for life in this new home.
madam president, commissioner hahn, thank you very much for your presentation of the current state of progress in albania. i see that my colleague agnew does not really know albania, because if he did, he would know how talented our young albanian friends are in knowing the language. i have personally seen this many times when i visited albania. in any case, it would be good for our friends in albania to continue with key political, judicial and economic reforms, for which it is important to reach consensus among all political actors and develop a culture of constructive parliamentary dialogue between the ruling and the opposition. the commission has carefully identified all the criteria to be met before accession negotiations are opened, and particular attention should be paid to the thorough reform of the judiciary to ensure an effective and independent from politics and other influences legal system guaranteeing the rule of law. i welcome the constructive role of albania in the foreign and security policy of south-eastern europe and as a croatian representative and member of the european parliament i will strongly and amicably encourage their european path and further reforms towards the eu.
the question asked by raising the blue card. as i always have great respect for mr plenkovic's position, also on regional issues, i wanted to ask: could you very briefly list two or three main positive aspects and perhaps one risk of albania's membership of the european union from a regional point of view?
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. in a world where every technological innovation, every new solution is worth its weight in gold for a business, especially a small and medium-sized one, the provision of such a safeguard is absolutely essential. the existence of many different legal provisions weakens the possibility of protection in the event of an infringement. what we have just heard from the green group's representative shows what we have been facing in the negotiations and in the work of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. well, you can't assume that all of them are thieves and criminals who just want to cheat and take advantage. individual cases must not cast a shadow over the vast majority of honestly operating businesses in the european union. the definition adopted in the negotiations, as well as the list of exceptions, is so broad that it does not in any way infringe workers' rights, much less restrict the freedom of the media. on the contrary, they open up these possibilities for access to information. i want to emphasize very clearly that it is only by protecting the small and mediumsized enterprises, which spend money on this, which often spend years developing very advanced solutions to enhance their competitiveness, that the european market can be opened up to the whole world and provide jobs for our workers in the european union. if you want to vote against this agreement tomorrow, you are voting against the eu's entrepreneurs.
mr. chairman, please! the private sector accounts for over 80% of the gdp of developing countries. it is the key to economic growth, trade and innovation. however, local businesses often face challenges such as poor infrastructure and lack of funding. therefore, companies investing in these countries must be socially responsible and act in a way that supports sustainable economic growth and job creation, due to, among other things, the specificity of the conditions. it is worth investing in regions where the potential to reduce poverty is highest, but without harming the environment. building local capacity through education is mutually beneficial: businesses gain skilled workers, giving them the chance to improve their living conditions. european companies should comply with established international standards wherever they operate. in this context, it is important to ensure that in the event of abuse, victims have the right to compensation and access to justice in the country where the undertaking has been operating.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we meet every month to talk about human rights and that's the bright side of our parliament, which has its flaws, but here we are together across political divides and that's really a good calling card for our house. but i didn't want to talk about us, i wanted to talk about the people who are dying or being persecuted for standing up for human rights, for standing up for indian rights, and they are both women and men. i think our voice should be particularly powerful here. we talked about the situation in pakistan, the situation of christians there. in other continents, particularly in central america, similar situations are taking place, and this resolution, which was drawn up over and above the divisions, speaks of this.
in writing. ‒ this regulation updates the general data protection directive of 1995, which was adopted in december 1995. it has been more than 20 years since the adoption of this directive. the use and dependence of the data economy, including attitudes towards the use of personal data, have changed significantly over this period. this regulation reflects the change and the need to ensure that individuals have adequate legal protection and a right to redress and service providers clear guidelines on how they are allowed to process personal data. i hope that the new rules will increase consumer confidence and create a level playing field across the eu, which will contribute to future investment in the single market. i voted to accept the document.
in writing. ‒ the directive forms the second half of the data protection package. it concerns the specific nature of police and judicial activities and sets out how personal data should be used in criminal proceedings and investigations. this request concerns both cross-border and national data processing by the competent authorities of the member states. i hope that the new rules will increase confidence in mutual recognition and cross-border cooperation in law enforcement. once adopted, the directive will apply to measures such as europol and eu-pnr as soon as they are adopted and enforced. i voted for the bill that was passed.
madam president! i would like to appeal to the president to be more disciplined. we have several mps here who are speaking out repeatedly, telling their life stories and overtaking the time by 20 seconds. there are people in this room who would like to have their say on the latest issues and they won't have a chance.
in writing. ‒ the directive will oblige airlines to provide eu law enforcement authorities with basic data such as ticket number, name and surname, and how passengers arriving or departing from the eu make payments, to help authorities fight terrorism and serious cross-border crime. the proposed directive introduces clear rules on the collection, use and retention of pnr data, as well as a strong framework for data protection and passenger rights. the provisions of the directive include a five-year retention period, both in the case of terrorism and serious crime. after 6 months of storage, the data will be masked (anonymised) by the authorities. there is a specific, closed list of crimes for which data can be used in the investigation and prosecution. there is a set of clear rules on the use of data, including the requirement for a data protection officer to be present in the relevant law enforcement units, guidelines on data management, independent supervision and monitoring, and an explicit reference to eu data protection rules. the directive also provides for a two-year review mechanism. the review will include an assessment of the need to include non-carrier economic operators in the scope of the directive, as well as an assessment of all aspects of the directive in terms of proportionality and necessity, with particular regard to the requirements of the court of justice in relation to the data retention directive. given the nature of the document, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data. the pnr system has been in the works for some time, but we have not yet been able to reach a political compromise on this. however, recent events in brussels, paris and many other places around the world have shown that the threat landscape is changing dramatically and that this change requires us to develop effective solutions to protect the security of our citizens. there is no longer room for 'business as usual' or for disputes of a strictly political nature, nor can we afford to postpone this decision again. we need action here and now. with tools like pnr, we are better able to fight terrorism and organised crime, as we are able to identify those who pose a threat to the security of our citizens more quickly. i understand and support the arguments about the need to respect the security of personal data, but i believe that the pnr directive provides good standards in this respect as well.
in writing. - we cannot allow the world to be ruled by terrorism. the air passenger name record (pnr) directive is a very important instrument to enhance the safety of europeans. by analysing the data collected, counter-terrorism services will be able to identify suspicious patterns of behaviour and take action against them. the proposed legislation is not a panacea, but it is a very important tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. but it is important to remember that there must be a balance between the genuine need to fight terrorism and the rights of citizens to privacy and to function in a modern society. citizens of democratic societies cannot be forced to give up the civil rights, the human rights, that they have been fighting for for centuries. there is a risk that legislative measures adopted in response to the threat of terrorism may restrict civil liberties. therefore, a cautious approach is essential. the standards of protection of personal data proposed in the directive are of a very high standard. there is no mass collection of data, only the ability to give law enforcement access to selected information. the directive clearly states that data may be collected, stored and processed only for the purposes of preventing and detecting serious crime and terrorist acts
in writing. ‒ terrorism and organised crime are two of the most deadly threats to democratic and peaceful societies. we are losing more and more in this unequal battle, and we need to look for tools that will allow us to better detect and combat threats to the security of our citizens. pnr data is a source of information that enables services to identify and eliminate threats before a tragedy occurs. i understand the concerns about privacy and the shifting boundaries of government access to personal data, but in a situation where people are dying, we have to accept that compromise. the role of policymakers is to ensure that this data is used properly and does not fall into the wrong hands. we are at war with an enemy who does not take the necessary measures, who does not respect our freedoms and rights or our lives. we have to sacrifice some of our imagination and some of our dreams for the efficiency of our actions. of course, this boundary cannot be pushed indefinitely. each entity and service that receives access to pnr data must be subject to democratic control and operate within the limits of the law. i believe we can provide that control. the implementation of these rules should not, of course, impose any new obligations on airlines or passengers. member states should make every effort to ensure that the transmission and exchange of such data does not constitute an excessive administrative burden. i voted to accept these solutions as proposed.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive is of particular importance as its main objective is to establish a set of rules to improve the competitiveness of european businesses through innovation, thus strengthening europe's position as a leader in the global industrial market. in the process of researching and developing new ideas, products or services, we are confronted with a lot of information that is crucial to our idea of competitiveness or business, but which does not fall within the scope of intellectual property rights. trade secrets are therefore a complementary tool for protecting such information, and it was necessary and important for the commission to regulate at eu level the acquisition, use or disclosure of such information. the directive also provides a legal framework for victims of trade secret theft to claim compensation. theft of trade secrets is a growing problem in the eu. given the nature of the document, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ trade secrets are valuable assets held by all companies, regardless of industry or size. this information determines the company's ability to innovate, develop and compete in the domestic and international market. europe has a strong position in science and innovation, which gives it the potential to become a global leader. at present, trade secrets are legally protected only if someone gains confidential information by unauthorized means. one in five companies has reported at least one attempt to steal its trade secrets in the last ten years. the conditions for the pursuit of innovative business activities should therefore be improved. there are considerable differences in the legislation of the member states. only some of them have a definition of trade secrets in their legislation or provisions to protect them. this means that they are not protected to an equivalent degree throughout the union, leading to a fragmentation of the internal market in this area and to a weakening of the deterrent effect that those rules should have. in this context, the commission adopted a comprehensive strategy on intellectual property in may 2011 in which it committed itself to examining the protection of trade secrets. the present proposal is a further step towards the fulfilment of this commitment to create a single market in intellectual property by introducing common definitions and rules in this area.
in writing. ‒ protecting against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is crucial to ensuring that businesses have a fair business environment. of course, it is important to remember that the circulation of knowledge and information is also of great importance for the process of innovation and creativity. however, companies should be free to decide when, with whom and what information they want to share. the eu directive on the protection of trade secrets of the european parliament and the council offers concrete solutions to combat industrial espionage. it should be noted that the rules on the protection of trade secrets have been laid down in a wide variety of legal acts adopted by the member states. in particular, there was no european definition of a trade secret and no common catalogue of actions that an injured party could take. the creation of a common european framework for the protection of trade secrets in the form of directives is an important step towards building a secure environment for european companies, ensuring the protection of their intangible assets and know-how. at the same time, it should be noted that the adopted document contains appropriate mechanisms that minimise the risk of unjustified claims for improper acquisition or circulation of business secrets.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the annual budgetary procedure, the committee on budgets prepares a draft report containing estimates of parliament's expenditure for the following year. the report shall be based on the preliminary draft of expenditure prepared by the bureau on the basis of information supplied by the secretary-general. the estimates for 2017 show that the total budget of the parliament will be eur 1 910 073 000. this will be an increase of 3,9% compared to the 2016 budget, with the largest increase expected due to the new security measures. the priorities for 2017 identified by the secretary-general are security and cybersecurity, the gradual withdrawal of the derogation for the irish language, strengthening the mandate of meps and making parliament more attractive to the public and visitors. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the annual budgetary procedure, the committee on budgets prepares a draft report containing estimates of parliament's expenditure for the following year. the report shall be based on the preliminary draft expenditure prepared by the bureau of the ep on the basis of information provided by the secretary-general. the total budget of parliament for 2017 is estimated at eur 1 910 073 000, an increase of 3,9% compared to the 2016 budget, with the largest increase expected in expenditure on new security measures. the priorities for 2017 identified by the secretary-general are security and cybersecurity, the gradual abolition of the derogation for the irish language, strengthening the mandate of meps and making parliament more attractive to the public and visitors. i hereby endorse this report.
in writing. ‒ in 1987, turkey applied to join the european economic community and in 1997 it was declared that it fulfilled the conditions for eu membership. accession negotiations were opened in 2005, but until turkey agrees to apply the additional protocol to the association agreement with ankara to cyprus, eight negotiating chapters will not be opened and no chapter will be provisionally closed. although turkey is a functioning market economy and is increasingly aligning its legislation with the eu acquis, the overall pace of reforms in the area of policy criteria has slowed considerably and there have been regressions in some areas such as the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law, freedom of speech and the media. the security situation in turkey is deteriorating rapidly due to the increasing violence between kurds and the turkish army and the numerous terrorist attacks attributed to the islamic state. the report highlighted the resumption of the negotiation process following the adoption of the joint action plan on migration, but stressed that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be dependent on the content, timing and conditionality of the accession negotiation process. in view of the many doubts that accompanied the report, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in 2005, the european union opened accession negotiations with turkey, which marked the start of a long and open process based on fair and rigorous conditions and a commitment to reform. any country wishing to join the eu must meet the criteria set by the community, such as respect for the principles of democracy and the rule of law, freedom of speech and the media, the fight against corruption and organised crime, etc. unfortunately, in recent years, the pace of political reform in turkey has slowed considerably and there has been a clear decline in the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. in addition, turkey has experienced a decline in rankings on corruption, media freedom and business conduct. it is essential that the country returns to the path of democratic reforms, otherwise the pace of the accession process will remain at its current low level. turkey is a key strategic partner for the union and further convergence of partners will be beneficial for both sides. the report's demands are therefore entirely justified and should serve as a basis for further reforms in turkey.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a very important country in the european union's immediate neighbourhood, which already in the 1980s declared its aspirations to join the community. however, despite many years of talks and negotiations, the prospect of full eu membership for ankara is still far off. despite many successes, especially in the economic field, turkey still faces many political problems that prevent the accession process from being finalised. it is not only the long-standing conflicts and disputes, such as the partition of cyprus and the lack of normalisation with armenia, but also new problems, in particular the military action against the kurds in syria and iraq and the insufficient involvement in the fight against the islamic state. the active involvement of turkey in the fight against illegal immigration to europe is commendable, but only time will tell whether and to what extent this involvement is sincere and effective. i support turkey's european ambitions, but i would like to see greater involvement of the authorities in ankara in solving the most important challenges for european security. i fully agree with the call in this report for turkey to step up its efforts to protect religious and ethnic minorities, especially christians and yazidis. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of words which i cannot subscribe to, and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on albania's progress towards eu accession shows continued progress on the key systemic reforms needed to launch accession negotiations. however, albania faces challenges such as irregularities in the functioning of the judicial system, the general politicization of the electoral process, widespread corruption, organised crime with a low number of final sentences, the lack of professional, independent and pluralistic public and private media, the increase of islamic radicalisation in society, etc. nevertheless, i welcome albania's progress on its path to eu integration, and i would like to thank the european union for its support. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on albania for 2015. i am pleased that albania is showing steady progress year on year in implementing reforms and making efforts to move closer to the european union. i commend the government's efforts to combat crime, the adoption of a plan for administrative reform and the consolidation of public finances. in this context, it is worth noting that the albanian government is beginning to engage in dialogue with various political forces and social partners. a strong civil society is an important pillar of democracy and only with its support can the necessary reforms be effectively implemented. of course, our albanian neighbour still faces many challenges. the commission rightly pointed out that tirana has a particularly long way to go in reforming the judiciary and fighting corruption. i believe that the european union should continue to support the important reforms and transformation processes taking place in albania. it is in our interest to have a stable, well-developed democracy in our immediate neighbourhood, which will be ready for membership of the community in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina is part of the enlargement package adopted by the european commission in november 2015. the commission has concluded that the elections held in october 2014 were sufficiently well organised. the parliamentary assembly they created began to function and implement the necessary reforms. bosnia and herzegovina faces many challenges in respecting human and minority rights. as regards the economic criterion, bosnia and herzegovina is at an early stage of the implementation of a functioning market economy. the difficult labour market situation has not changed and youth unemployment has risen from 27.6% to 62.7%. all these problems are reflected in the report, which, on the one hand, criticises the lack of concrete progress, while, on the other, underlines the eu's support for the necessary changes in the country. in view of the efforts made by bosnia and herzegovina to normalize the internal situation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2015. continued legal and socioeconomic reforms in the country are undoubtedly a key element in progress towards integration with the european union. however, i believe that such changes cannot be fully achieved without an effective fight against corruption, whose high level is worrying. in this context, it is necessary to establish structures to prevent corruption, as well as to increase the effectiveness of its prosecution and the conviction of the guilty by final court judgments. i also consider it extremely important to step up efforts to create and promote a tolerant and inclusive society, as well as to ensure the sustainability of the post-war reconciliation process. education that promotes unity and understanding is certainly important in this regard. more emphasis should also be placed on the return of internally displaced persons and refugees, who remain in large numbers in their pre-war homes.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to make the link between social policy and energy policy, highlighting that the eu is moving away from the europe 2020 target of reducing poverty. the report calls for eu social engagement through a minimum income framework and further changes to social and labour rights and anti-discrimination legislation. the report invites the commission to estimate the means of ensuring an adequate minimum income above the poverty line of 60% of the national median income in all member states. another pillar of poverty reduction is the reduction of household costs through targeted eu funds. the report introduces the concept of a european moratorium on winter heating cuts, to ensure that no household can be without electricity for a fixed period in winter, and that those who are in such a situation are restored, stressing that the costs are the responsibility of the public authorities, as stated in the report. unfortunately, despite the seriousness of the problem, i could not support this report, which proposes to initiate debate in policy-making, public intervention and increased public spending, but does not present any sustainable and balanced solutions based on improved labour and education markets and better public services. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the attainment of the poverty reduction target in the light of the rising costs borne by households. unfortunately, progress towards one of the europe 2020 targets, namely reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, is insufficient. the report on tackling poverty in the face of rising household costs raises a number of important issues that can bring us closer to solving this problem. i agree with the rapporteur that there are links between social and energy policy. increasing the energy efficiency of households, as well as the better use of modern and renewable energy sources, will help to reduce the level of energy poverty still experienced by many households in the union. because of the interdependencies, this subject requires a holistic approach. i therefore believe that it is particularly important in this area to create synergies between the various existing funds and to manage the funds allocated to these objectives effectively, both at the commission and member state level and at local level.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to link social policy and energy policy, while highlighting the eu's move away from the europe 2020 target of reducing poverty. the rapporteur calls for social engagement on the eu side through a minimum income framework and further changes in social and labour rights and anti-discrimination legislation. the report concludes that a minimum income is an essential instrument to be introduced to ensure respect for the fundamental right to decent living conditions. another pillar of poverty reduction is the reduction of household costs through targeted eu funds. this report describes poverty and proposes to initiate debate in policy-making, public intervention and increased public spending, but fails to present any sustainable and balanced solutions based on improved labour and education markets and better public services. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the various economic and trade consequences of the current crisis, which affects almost all sectors of the economy, are often highlighted, but social issues are less frequently addressed. crises and their accompanying phenomena and changes often lead to an increase in household expenditure on media (electricity, water) and other housing, health, education and training costs. these trends are particularly dangerous, because they lead to an increase in poverty and the risk of social exclusion. this situation particularly affects people at risk of social exclusion and vulnerable groups. particular attention should also be paid to countering the negative effects of the social crisis and of low household income in rural areas, which often result in depopulation. once a certain limit is reached, and once the population has completely left the area, it is very difficult to get people to settle there again. supporting positive economic and social trends in rural areas is a way of reducing unemployment by promoting self-employment in agriculture and other services. supporting young people considering farming is crucial for the long-term development of rural areas in europe. particular protection should be provided to the unemployed, to families with children, to persons with disabilities, to the sick and elderly, to minors and to those who, for various reasons, are at greater risk of social exclusion and poverty. the growing number of one-person households in europe also deserves attention and a suitable approach.
in writing. ‒ the report is a response to the commission communication 'a stronger role for the private sector in achieving sustainable and inclusive growth in developing countries' adopted on 13 may 2014. the document highlights the crucial role that the private sector can play in achieving the objectives of our development strategy, with the estimated annual needs in developing countries exceeding current spending by usd 2.4 billion. the private sector drives prosperity and growth in every market economy and creates 90% of jobs and income, as well as 84% of gdp in developing countries. the report focuses on potential public-private partnerships in areas ranging from infrastructure, energy and water to other sectors where public funds are proving insufficient, such as healthcare and education, on support for the local private sector in developing countries and on the extension of the european investment bank's mandate to provide loans to third countries and the pooling of eu financing instruments in general. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a huge capital injection is needed to develop local economies and further reduce poverty. its current shortfall can only be filled by a greater involvement of the private sector. the european union should provide technical support for european public enterprises in the partner countries. i am glad that parliament's report has so clearly supported the promotion of public-private partnerships (ppps), because it is this type of activity that can lead to long-term development based on new and innovative technologies. if we want to provide decent jobs for millions of people living in poverty, we need to see this as a mutual opportunity, not a problem. the adopted document rightly emphasises the need to establish a multilateral dialogue platform at eu level where the private sector, ngos, think tanks, donors, governments and other stakeholders could more easily cooperate on development and build mutual trust more effectively. development aid is often not properly matched or is duplicated by many actors. there is no doubt that the private sector should play a greater and more important role in development cooperation and in efforts to reduce inequality and poverty. the sector is the foundation of any economy, and business and development objectives are not contradictory but complementary.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the impact of the immigration crisis on the transport sector in the eu (2016/2653 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. transport is the lifeblood of the european economy. any serious disturbance in the smooth functioning of this sector results in losses for undertakings, delays in deliveries and, as a consequence, falling revenues and rising costs, and risks of redundancies in many sectors. the past year and the escalating immigration crisis is an unprecedented problem that the trucking industry is practically dealing with on its own. in recent months i have received a lot of signals from transport company owners and truck drivers from the kujawsko-pomorskie region, who described the working conditions in the calais area. attacks on cars while driving, threats, thefts, attempts to break into trailers to cross the uk border illegally are a daily occurrence for truck drivers not only from my hometown of bydgoszcz, but from all over poland, which has been a key player in the road transport market in the european union for many years. i'm very happy to finally be able to talk about these issues here in this forum, where we so rarely deal with the real issues of the people who elected us, who we represent here. looking at the images from the access roads to the port of calais and seeing truck drivers throwing rocks, it is impossible to ignore the fact that these attacks are being carried out by illegal immigrants. who pays for these robberies? who's funding the extra security on the trailers or the surveillance inside the trucks? after all, who risks their health and life to work under such difficult conditions? the drivers themselves, of course, and their employers, whose daily losses run into thousands of euros. this particular example is just one of many visible manifestations of the impact of the immigration crisis on the transport sector in the european union. the temporary closure of rail links between member states, the thousands of attempts to penetrate the eurotunnel, the huge uncontrolled movement of small boats and pontoons in the mediterranean, and finally the gradual unilateral reintroduction by member states of border controls in the schengen area, this is the present of the european transport sector. do we want his immediate future to be like this? will concrete action be taken only when, in addition to the financial losses, the pictures of the victims of road accidents caused by the lack of proper control over the movement of waves of illegal immigrants in europe appear on the front pages of newspapers? i would like to call for more commitment from the european commission, especially to transport companies and companies, including the launching of real support to finance investments to improve the safety of transport workers and compensation for losses incurred due to the ongoing immigration crisis. we invest a lot of money in infrastructure in the european union. we must help its users in a situation where their safety and working conditions are threatened by the irresponsible and inconsistent european immigration policy. our task is to do everything we can to support the member states at the union's external borders and to regain a real influence on the number of people coming to europe. if our external borders are not sealed, no temporary solution will help and the schengen area will simply cease to exist. the economic costs of such a scenario, not just for my country, would be enormous. in other words, i would appeal to the commission to ensure that the law that is already in place today is consistently respected and enforced.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr ismail ertuğ, ms lucy anderson, mr francisco assis, mr georges bach, ms miriam dalli, ms isabella de monte, ms karoline graswander-hainz, mr merja kyllönen, mr miltiadis kyrkos, mr bogusław liberadzki, mr mariano-jean marinescu, mr markus pieper, mr herbert reul, mr olga sehnalova, mr claudia tapardel, mr pavel telička, mr kathleen van brempt, mr wim van de campa, mr kosmas złotowski, mr robert zīle, mr gesine meissner, mr peter simona, mr gabriele preuß, mr susanne melior, mr kerstin westphal, mr neus norda, mr peter kammere, mr maria novert, mr richard hoffmann, mr ulrik gebhard, mr roger arnecht, mr jacob weyne, mr jacob weyne, mr michael schmitt, mr michael schmitt, mr michael schmitt, mr michael schmitt, mr michael schmitt, mr martin and mr schmitt, who are both members of the committee on the rules of the rules of procedure, which is to be held on the following the first day of the sitting.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the future of transport must start today, especially as each day brings new ideas and innovations that our law and infrastructure are not yet ready to handle. the concept of driverless vehicles is no longer just a concept, but a testbed, and an important part of the long-term plans of many car companies. this technological revolution in the automotive industry has the potential to help solve many of the problems we face today in terms of mobility, environmental protection and safety. intelligent autonomous vehicles are better-performing traffic management systems, a chance to reduce the number of accidents caused by drivers, a more economical use of resources, and -- as we saw last week -- a revolution in freight transport. however, such changes require sound preparation and a thorough assessment of all potential implications, including from the perspective of the future of the labour market. i believe that the european commission should be involved in preparing the necessary studies on the widespread use of unmanned vehicles.
i'm closing the debate.
first of all, i would like to say that legislation of this kind falls within the prerogatives of the national states and not of the european institutions. secondly, the polish government has no agenda to change the law on abortion. it's been repeated over and over. i don't know why this didn't get to the people who drafted this resolution. thirdly, it is true that there is a debate in poland on this subject, involving civil society from different sides of the debate. such a resolution would be, in effect, a call to silence civil society and would be unacceptable, it would be seen as an act of arrogance completely without foundation. i guess we can debate that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr pirinski, for a very interesting report. but i see a real problem. in 2014, almost 60% (59.4%, to be precise) of european investment bank-signed projects were allocated to the top five eu economies, while the other 23 member states received only 30.3%. this means that the bank should definitely implement a more balanced lending policy towards member states. a more balanced, fairer policy is of high importance because of the intensity of both the current and the long-term challenges facing the union at the moment. finally, my political group finds this policy strange and unfair, and we cannot support this resolution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for this important question. of course, the question of geographical criteria and geographical balance is very important, not only for the european external action service - which we have had a problem with for years, i would remind you - but also for the european investment bank and many other issues. i think the european parliament should be more open to the needs of the 13 new member states of the european union that have joined since 2004. and i think that would be very good for, shall we say, the authority of the european union in those countries.
thank you very much, madam president! president hoyer, despite what is said, i share mr pierre moscovici's view. the european investment bank is our success. we have three institutions that we can compare relatively: the european investment bank, the world bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development. and from that perspective, you employ the fewest people, you have the most projects, you work closest with the european union, with us, to achieve the goals that are so important to us. mr pirinsky's report, which is very important, points out the points where this good bank can be even better. and here i ask you to really take all of this transparency stuff seriously. these methods of cooperation, avoiding doubt - because often the bank does not deserve to have doubts multiplied - are crucial. let me draw attention to three points: the juncker plan. we're very much looking forward to the methodology, the example of project bonds and how we would report these projects. i speak for the new state, which is a big client, and i have almost 30 years of experience working with the european investment bank. for almost ten years, in the early 1990s, in a government position, now here in the european parliament. the second area is small and medium-sized enterprises. there is no doubt that this is a problem, because in poland people even ask: how do you get information about the availability of the project? will anyone talk to me about this stupid little €15 million project? this information is missing and i would like to ask you to fill in this information. and finally, the third area is infrastructure and the european one, and the cohesion funds, and connecting europe, but here the european investment bank is irreplaceable, and you are good.
rapporteur.– madam president, the main problem of the discharge procedure, which has been ongoing for years, is the discharge procedure concerning the council and the european council. starting from the weakness observed during the budgetary control procedure, we have to indicate the high underspending rate that covers almost all categories, the very high number of appropriations being carried over from 2014-2015, particularly those for property, plant and equipment, as well as major transfers within budget lines. these problems could be avoided with better budgetary programming. for better budgetary programming, key performance indicators have to be developed. moreover, the council has still not adopted a code of conduct, which is indispensable to the transparency, accountability and integrity of the institution. there is also a worrying lack of transparency with regard to the legislative process, negotiations and member states’ positions at meetings within the council. the council definitely should disclose the relevant documents and put in place a clearer reporting system that will enable the public to follow the legislative procedures in an open and transparent manner. there is also the problem of the lack of transparency of the trilogues and conciliation meetings. the council definitely has to increase transparency and integrity with regard to their negotiations. taking into consideration political problems, as far as cooperation between parliament and the council is concerned, we have to indicate that the council ought to be transparent and fully accountable to union citizens for the funds entrusted to it by taking part fully and in good faith in the annual discharge procedure, just as other union institutions do. in this regard, effective supervision of the union’s budget implementation requires cooperation between parliament and the council through a working arrangement. but, as a matter of fact, there is no cooperation, no dialogue. the council does not participate in the budgetary control procedure and does not provide answers to written questions asked by our committee on budgetary control or by particular members of our committee. the council does not participate in the hearings or debates concerning budgetary control procedure regarding the council. we cannot forget that the procedure of granting discharge separately to the individual union institutions’ bodies is a long-standing practice which has been developed to guarantee transparency and democratic accountability towards union taxpayers.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the court of justice, in taking the floor in this discharge debate for 2014, i would like to focus on the expenditure of section three commission and executive agencies, as it is an essential part of the eu budget. i would like to draw attention to two major problems in relation to the expenditure of this section. the first is the alarmingly high level of error, which for payments was on average 4,4% and was similar to that of 2012-13. moreover, in budgetary actions such as cohesion and agriculture, which account for almost 70% of expenditure, it was even higher, at 5.7% and 6.2% respectively. although the error rate is not a clear indication of fraud or waste, it can also mean spending funds in a way that is not in accordance with the applicable rules, but despite this reservation, it is about €5 billion that is being spent in this way and unfortunately this amount is increasing year by year. the second problem is the zero absorption in 2014 for many programmes under the financial perspective 2014-2020 due to the late adoption of the regulations by the commission, which may have a negative impact on the use of budgetary appropriations in subsequent years.
madam president, commissioner, president caldeira, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. let me start with a wonderful sentence, one of the first mrs dlabajeva said: discharge cannot be used for political games. two of them. i would like to refer in particular to mr pieper's report (note: i thank mr pieper very much for his good cooperation) and to what he said: the value and importance of the work of the european parliament and of the members is of great importance. and the commissioner was kind enough to mention two important indicators, or metrics, namely the error rate and the achievement of policy objectives. it should be connected. the european parliament's discharge error rate is 0.5%, up from 1% a year ago an improvement. the reputation of parliament is clearly growing, and we should - as we seldom do - give a word of appreciation to both mr schulz, the president, and mr welle, the secretary. as a discharge institution, we set an example.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. gerbrandy, i have a question, since you're addressing president schulz. we know that the so-called spitzenkandidat was involved, but did you also ask your chairman guy verhofstadt, the chairman of your political group? he was a spitzenkandidat, too. did he file a similar report or was he treated similarly to chairman schulz?
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. madam president of the european commission! mr president! representatives of the dutch presidency! this time i will speak in polish, i spoke in english before, also for three minutes, and i will say that first of all, indeed, our cooperation with the european court of auditors in luxembourg - the cooperation of the european parliament, and in particular the committee on budgetary control - is much better at the moment than it was seven years ago, as i remember, or six years ago. this is progress and we are now playing together as one team, the team of auditors, and i think this is a good signal for the european taxpayer and for all those who want european money to be spent as wisely as possible. the second point is that it seems to me that it is necessary to say very clearly in the context of the european external action service, in the context of eu diplomacy, that there is still a need for some geographical parities. this is absolutely obvious and absolutely fundamental. if we hear that of the 128 heads of delegation, representations of the european union, 60 are almost from the member states and of those 60 only 20 are from the countries of the new union, then of course we can speak of some significant disproportions. if my country should have 11 eu ambassadors per population (poland per population) and it has four, then these disparities are indeed a fact, and this also applies to other countries of the new union and it should be said. the same applies to the european institutions, because it is not just the european external action service that is concerned. it is not yet the best, but it is moderately good in the european parliament, worse in the european commission, and worst in the european council. and that brings us to the european council. i would like to say that i have the feeling that every year the same spectacle is played out: we are rightly complaining and slandering the council all the time, we are stressing the lack of cooperation, the lack of political will on the part of the council and we are right all the time, we are declaring the same thing all the time and of course there is no response. there's an old polish saying: grandfather spoke to the painting, the painting to him not once. we're throwing these balls back to the council and it's having no effect. it is time for the european parliament to take a very firm stand on this issue, because it cannot be that these two institutions do not cooperate because of the council's lack of willingness to cooperate.
madam president! one of the most brutal, shocking terrorist attacks by the islamic state in recent times was the attack in aden on a nursing home, the home of mother teresa, where the nursing sisters and their caregivers were deliberately killed, not as accidental victims. we have a very rich agenda of debates on human rights. unfortunately, the event has completely passed our view. we have to record every time that not only innocent people are killed in war, but innocent people are targeted in war, and in this case, we had that happen.
in writing. as a result of the various armed activities currently underway, we have witnessed an increasing number of attacks on hospitals and schools around the world. international humanitarian law mitigates the effects of these actions by protecting those who do not take part in them. the 1946 un convention on privileges and immunities protects schools and health care facilities. on the eve of the world humanitarian summit, we should strongly condemn the use of civilian infrastructure, including hospitals and schools, by parties to armed conflicts. the summit gives all un member states a chance to reiterate their commitment to the protection of civilians and respect for human rights in this regard, i.e. the principles they have already agreed to. eu policy in this area should be promoted and implemented in a consistent and effective manner. eu member states, using all available tools to effectively uphold international humanitarian law, should lead by example in implementing the ratified core instruments of this law. it is necessary to impose an eu arms embargo on countries that are responsible for violations of international humanitarian law, in particular for deliberate attacks on civilian infrastructure. strengthen international investigative and judicial systems aimed at curtailing the impunity of perpetrators of violations of international humanitarian law.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 28 april 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on:- oral question with debate to the council by mr pavlo svoboda, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, and ms cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the protection of the child's best interests across borders in europe (000027/2016 b8-0359/2016) (2016/2665 ((rsp)). - having regard to the question with oral answer by mr pavlo svoboda, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, and ms cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the protection of the child's best interests across borders in europe (000028/2016 b8-0360/2016) (2016/2665 ((rsp))
mr. chairman, please! each year, the committee receives many complaints about children. the scale of the problem requires the urgent provision of tools to address cross-border issues, and the problems identified cover a wide range of areas. one is the inadequate implementation of the brussels regulation 2, the other is the lack of coordination of the transmission of child protection information between member states in cross-border cases. there are also cases of non-recognition and non-enforcement of judgments in another member state. the system you build has to be multi-directional, it has to have access to different tools. i know from polish experience that many problems arise from, for example, difficult access to information and legal aid. a system of funding and support for organisations providing information and assistance on family matters should therefore be established. an important element of this system would be a single european intervention number. a simple and widely accessible guide to the systems in place in each member state and the rights it confers should be produced as soon as possible. after all, many conflicts stem from ignorance of the legal system. these and other actions must be taken urgently if politicians' declarations that the welfare of the child is paramount are not just a matter of slogans.
in writing. the increase in mobility within the eu has led to an increase in cross-border child protection cases, as evidenced, among other things, by the mass petitions to the european parliament. in the light of the upcoming review of the brussels ii regulation, the commission should draw attention to the clear problems with the implementation of that regulation and consider strengthening its provisions. in addition, it would be important to remove the current procedural and bureaucratic obstacles in childcare proceedings. the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration in all care decisions at all legislative levels. all child protection systems should have transnational and cross-border mechanisms that take into account the specific characteristics of such disputes. in this context, i welcome the council's call for member states to establish monitoring and evaluation systems within the national framework for the coordination of cross-border cases involving children. in addition, the obligation for national authorities, as laid down in the brussels iia regulation, to recognise and enforce judgments given in another member state and the strengthening and improvement of judicial cooperation in all matters concerning children are necessary.
in writing. demographic changes in recent decades and the associated evolution of the family model have resulted in many domestic and care work being carried out within the framework of an employment relationship. unfortunately, people employed in domestic and care work may be exposed to discrimination. first, they are often people in a grey area, without any labour rights, with unregulated status and working hours. this leaves them without job security and social security. secondly, there are also cases of gender discrimination, harassment and bullying. this makes it necessary to take specific measures to lift the sector out of the grey area and to strengthen the position of those employed in it. however, i believe that the situation in the member states is so different that it is the governments that should take responsibility for solving this problem. intervention by the union would be a very clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity in this case. member states, knowing their own specificities, are able to prepare much more effective programmes of action to reduce pathologies in the domestic and care work sector. the european commission should focus on collecting and disseminating good practice and innovative solutions from individual countries.
in writing. human trafficking and exploitation and forced labour are problems that need to be urgently addressed. the persons in this situation are mostly women who work in the care of the disabled or elderly or who are engaged in domestic work as part of their profession. it should be our duty to ensure that this group of people has the opportunity to be given official legal status. illegal human trafficking is a felony. the financial exploitation and intimidation of these people is reason enough to change. the european union is committed to values such as respect for human rights and dignity, and the resolution on this issue rightly refers to the laws of individual eu member states. the introduction of bilateral agreements between the host country and the country of which the worker is a national will certainly be a positive change. the creation of a single rule will help to limit the growth of illegal trafficking in human beings and unregistered labour.
i can't imagine how you can seriously talk about discriminating against women in the digital realm. well, except that in tennis, men play five hundred, and women only three, men push a seven-pound ball, and women five-pound ball. so the only solution i see is to introduce a rule that women only count to seven digits, not ten. it would make it much easier for women to get into digital technology.
mr. chairman, please! we have been hearing about vladimir putin in this room recently, especially when we have to call to order those who warn of the evolution the european union is heading towards, who speak of the state of our institutions. meanwhile, as russia is dissolving the mejlis of the crimean tatar national representation, the community that is the best barometer of freedom in crimea, the french government invites the russian president to pay an official visit to their country. this invitation, this gesture, i mean, ladies and gentlemen, is not just - as minister ayrault said - a sign of centuries of tradition, it is actually a sign of the direction in which the mainstream of the european union is going, whatever its leaders may say.
today, we are outraged that turkey is interrogating and detaining ebru umar, a journalist accused of insulting his excellency tayyip erdoğan. i agree that heads of state should not be insulted, but the turkish president has said that he will fight against hatred of turkey, of its history. okay, but why would the german government agree to prosecute mr. jan böhmermann, who is doing the same thing? and by the way, contrary to angela merkel, the prosecution in germany is not independent because it needs the consent of the government to prosecute the perpetrators, and it has been given that consent. then why didn't it get it ten years ago, when a german satirist from tageszeitung insulted the then president of poland, the late lech kaczyński, because the government declared, quote, "freedom of the press is a high ranking good and actions against it are not possible due to the constitution". and why did mr. marcin schulz illegally expel from the chamber of parliament general eleftherios sinadinos, who did not insult any president but only quoted the opinion of a 16th century arab historian about the turks. the double standards are unacceptable, and i believe that the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's attitude to turkey is characterized by the incomprehensible, almost arrogant attitude of some eu politicians towards the right or wrong demands of his excellency tayyip erdoğan. this is incomprehensible in the light of the union's own customary sensitivity to minority rights, freedom of speech and the like. when you don't know what it is, you know it's money. so the question arises, because this must be the money that flows from turkey to brussels, the question arises: what part of the turkish harac is going to go back to brussels and into whose pocket? this may explain why the only eu body that could try to explain this the european public prosecutor's office has not yet been established. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president, our relations with turkey are deeper and more comprehensive than just outsourcing of the migration problem. i would like to underline two important areas of cooperation to be defined. first, eradication of the impunity of migration smugglers, and secondly, limiting the flow of european youth to isil.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it must be said openly that the compromise reached on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package does not fully satisfy all those concerned. from my country's point of view, the proposed transitional periods for many of the proposed regulations should be much longer. we just need more time to implement the planned investments. the differences in the level of development of railway infrastructure in the member states are still significant and the modernisation of railway lines is a time-consuming process. by introducing an additional procedure for assessing the technical specifications of these investments from the point of view of the ertms, this process can be further extended. on the other hand, as the representative of bydgoszcz in the european parliament, i am very pleased that pesa, a highly regarded european manufacturer of rolling stock, will have easier access to the market by creating an alternative pathway for the approval of its products by the european railway agency. this is good news for the company, its employees and the entire kujawsko-pomorskie region.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we are now at a very important point, namely the technical part, which we agree on here, gives us the basis for starting to think of rail transport in europe not as a collection of separate rail systems in each member state, but finally as a community approach. and you have the chance to be the first european transport minister, also in the railway sector. we've already discussed the advantages of being here. i would like to draw attention to another important point for the future: we are allocating, even in this multiannual financial framework, large tens of billions of euros for transport investments, including rail. these new standards, these new directions will allow us to harmonise investment expenditure and to expect good, effective european added value. i welcome this technical part, because it means more union in rail transport.
in writing. the implementation of the e75 rail baltica international route project, which is part of the core network of european transport corridors, namely the north sea corridor, fits perfectly into the debate on railway interoperability. it is a key railway project in north-eastern europe, running through the podlaskie region, the baltic countries and helsinki. in practice, this will be the only rail link between the baltic countries and poland and the rest of the european union. it is of great importance not only economically but also politically and strategically. rail baltica is an opportunity for increased access to the labour market, easier trade and enhanced cross-border and interregional cooperation. for the union, it also means faster transport of energy resources, security and less dependence on russia. rail baltica is also a priority railway investment in my region, which will result in shorter and safer journeys, new comfortable platforms, more trains on the route and, above all, jobs and economic development in podlasie. i am all the more concerned about the difficulties and delays that are piling up around it, initially related to the route planning through kaunas or vilnius, and now with the speed parameters. delays in the implementation of this project represent a missed opportunity to strengthen economic and political cohesion along the west-east axis. i am counting on the full commitment of the member states and the commission to this project.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that this long process of agreeing the different parts of the railway package will finally be completed after so many years and will open the door to better functioning of european railways, to increased safety and to the elimination of administrative and technical barriers. i believe that the fourth railway package is a balanced consensus on the technical side. i welcomed the arrangements for the new tasks of the european railway agency, which will allow for the issuing of uniform safety certificates for railway undertakings operating in at least two member states or at the request of an applicant operating in only one member state. in addition, i am pleased that provisions have also been introduced to respect the jurisdiction of national market regulators to issue certificates to railway operators operating exclusively on the national market. however, i believe that, given the differences in development between the old and new member states, the transitional period should be slightly longer to allow for the correct and effective implementation of certain provisions, such as those relating to the ertms system. a reasonable period of time should always be allowed for the member state to adapt its national standards to european standards. i hope that the actions that will be voted on today will be another step towards improving the quality of rail services and opening up the rail transport market.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament is finalising the railway package. in this package, we focus on three issues: increasing rail interoperability in the eu, rail safety and the functioning of the eu railway agency. the compromise focuses mainly on the technical problems that have so far blocked the creation of a single railway area in the union. this required the harmonisation of railway standards and procedures in the member states. the aim is that the authorisations granted for the placing on the market in the union of rolling stock, such as locomotives and wagons, are universally applicable. as well as the safety certificates issued by the railway agency and individual countries. the adoption of such uniform solutions reduces red tape and costs for carriers, as they have had to obtain certificates in all countries. this should also contribute to the safety and development of the railway sector in the european union. the development of the railway sector in the union is one of the conditions for sustainable development, economic and tourist recovery in many regions and improvement of the environment.
in writing. ‒ this agreement takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu and enables croatia to become a party to the same aviation agreement. the agreement does not introduce any change to the substance of its content. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a common european airspace with georgia is of the utmost importance for its proper functioning. i voted in favour of the protocol amending the eu-georgia agreement on the establishment of a common aviation area and in favour of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and israel. both amending protocols relate to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as well as to assisting croatia to become a party to the air transport agreements.
in writing. ‒ this agreement takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu and enables croatia to become a party to the same aviation agreement. the agreement does not introduce any change to the substance of its content. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a common european airspace with georgia is of the utmost importance for its proper functioning. i voted in favour of the protocol amending the eu-georgia agreement on the establishment of a common aviation area and in favour of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and israel. both amending protocols relate to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as well as to assisting croatia to become a party to the air transport agreements.
in writing. ‒ the report endorses the european commission's recommendation on the council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article 3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. this is a routine procedure, and parliament is consulted on it. i fully support croatia's accession to the convention. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations (accession of croatia). any action in breach of customs legislation seriously damages the economic, fiscal and commercial interests of all member states of the european union. it is also a current and important problem to ensure the accurate determination of the level of customs duties and other taxes. the closer operational cooperation between the administrative customs authorities of all the countries of the european union is therefore to be supported. i am convinced that the actions taken under this agreement will have a positive impact on strengthening cooperation, facilitating trade and thus enhancing security of the supply chain.
in writing. - i voted for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution proposes that member states designate specialised chambers within family courts or cross-border mediation bodies to deal with child cases and establish minimum standards for hearing a child in national civil proceedings, setting thresholds for the duration of each stage of cross-border child custody proceedings to give parents or family members time to resolve their problems. member states that have not yet signed the hague convention for the protection of children are encouraged to do so. unfortunately, the resolution also contains problematic aspects concerning the removal of competences from national parliaments and courts and their transfer to the commission, as well as injunctive measures promoting the principle of one measure for all. in view of the above, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which is the result of hundreds of petitions from across the european union in various child disputes. it is children who suffer the consequences of the lack of cooperation between the member states of the union and the ineffective application of the principle of the best interests of the child in cross-border custody and adoption proceedings. the establishment of specialised bodies in national family courts should speed up the settlement of such disputes. these cases are particularly relevant where the parents have different nationalities. this is the arbitrary placement of a child in a foreign institution, the abduction of a child by one of the parents, or a dispute over custody of the child. it is necessary for member states to regulate the automatic recognition of national adoption orders and documents issued in another member state without any bureaucratic barriers. when deciding whether to adopt a child or place him in a care facility, he should be given the chance to maintain cultural ties and to learn his mother tongue. member states should make every effort to avoid separating siblings. particular attention should be paid to the cases of parents who, as victims of domestic violence themselves, are automatically deprived of parental rights when they use violence against their children. they deserve support, because taking away their custody rights could mean making them victims again.
in writing. ‒ every year, the committee on petitions of the european parliament receives a large number of complaints concerning the welfare of children. increased mobility of citizens within the european union has led to an increase in the number of cross-border child protection court cases involving deprivation of care. the scale of the problem requires the urgent provision of tools to facilitate the resolution of cross-border cases. the european parliament resolution rightly emphasised that one of the major problems in this area is the insufficient implementation of the brussels ii regulation and the lack of coordination between member states in the provision of information on the protection of children's rights in cross-border cases. in its document, the european parliament also drew attention to the fact that multi-directional actions are needed at eu and national level, such as support for access to information and legal aid. however, to make this possible, member states should increase their financial contribution to supporting family aid organisations and the eu should consider setting up a single helpline and a platform to provide assistance to eu citizens who are not nationals of the country of residence in family proceedings. action in the area of the best interests of the child should be taken as soon as possible so that declarations are not mere slogans. that is why i have decided to support the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child in cross-border custody cases. it is not directly binding, but it is a guide for the european institutions and individual countries. the resolution is the ep's reasoned response to hundreds of petitions and complaints concerning the application of family law in the member states. we are seeing an increase in parental disputes over child custody, adoption, and parental abduction. the minimum response to these frequent human tragedies should be for all member states of the union to designate specialised chambers in family courts to deal competently and as quickly as possible with disputes concerning children. it is also a matter of universally recognising national adoption orders and documents issued in another member state. perhaps this would at least partially alleviate the tragedies of many children and families.
in writing. ‒ i am against the request for an opinion from the eesc i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the three previous eu 'railway packages' have led to major changes to increase the competitiveness and interoperability of european railways, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, the railway sector continues to face challenges such as barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalised, dynamic and entrepreneurial environment. in addition, there are too many national rules, procedures and standards that lack transparency. part of the solution is to strengthen the competence of the european railway agency, which should offer efficient and user-friendly authorisation and certification procedures. the increased role of the agency is intended to contribute to greater interoperability of projects, inter alia, by means of an assessment of the technical solutions envisaged by the agency before each publication of a call for tenders for track-side equipment. the agency will also be a 'one-stop shop', acting as a single point of entry for all applications. however, for rail transport to operate efficiently at european level, it is necessary to cooperate more closely with national authorities, share expertise and information. a strong, well-equipped and efficient railway agency is a prerequisite for the development and functioning of the european railway market.
in writing. ‒ in january 2013, the commission proposed the 4th railway package, which aims to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing remaining market barriers to create a single european railway area. the fourth railway package consists of the so-called technical pillar and the political pillar. the three proposals forming the political pillar are still being negotiated in parliament and the council, while the technical pillar (containing the interoperability directive in question, as well as the railway safety directive and the era regulation) was agreed at the end of june last year. the agreements have been confirmed by the council and now need to be confirmed by parliament. the purpose of the document is to establish a european vehicle register. the national vehicle registers maintained by each member state will be integrated into the european vehicle register and this register will gradually replace the need to maintain national lists. the european vehicle register will be fully operational within 5 years of the entry into force of the interoperability directive. i am opposed to the above proposals. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the past decade. despite the significant evolution of the european union acquis on the rail transport services market, rail transport still accounts for a small share of intra-eu transport. the overall share of rail transport in the eu market currently stands at 6%, and according to eurobarometer, as many as 54% of users are dissatisfied with its services. the interoperability directive is part of the fourth railway package and focuses mainly on removing existing administrative and technical barriers, in particular by: introducing a common approach to safety and interoperability rules to increase the benefits of scale for railway undertakings across the eu, reducing administrative costs and speeding up harmonised procedures, and preventing hidden discrimination. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the interoperability of the rail system in the eu. the new european union regulations should significantly enhance interoperability between the different national rail systems. the directive will make it easier and more effective to reduce and simplify existing regulations. by drastically cutting red tape and increasing standardisation for vehicle manufacturers and service managers, rail transport will become much easier to operate.
in writing. ‒ the regulation is a response to a number of high-profile index manipulation scandals, the most serious of which was the manipulation of libor rates. the disclosure of these irregularities over the past few years has cast a shadow over the way financial indicators are produced and used. the document aims to enhance investor protection by providing an eu-wide framework for administrators of indicators and indices used in financial products. it introduces a framework applicable to all indicators to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and conflicts of interest by creating a regulatory framework around the administrators of the indicators. while it is possible to have reservations about the wide scope of the regulation, a degree of proportionality in the final result was achieved by distinguishing between many different types of indicators and applying different systems to different types and categories of indicators. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, financial indicators have been subject to numerous manipulations, which have prompted the european union to take appropriate preventive measures. i voted for the introduction of an appropriate regulatory framework applicable to all indicators. this will reduce the vulnerability of indicators to variations and conflicts of interest. the introduction of a distinction between types of indicators and the inclusion of different systems for the types and categories of indicators has allowed the achievement of a degree of proportionality and the ordering of such a wide range of indicators. it should also be mentioned that a system of recognition of third country indicators has also been established.
in writing. ‒ the provisions on the supervision of market indices such as libor and euribor are designed to prevent manipulation and ensure that the indices are set in a transparent manner. benchmarks are essential for the functioning of our financial markets. manipulating them is tantamount to robbing investors and consumers. the new rules could prove to be a step in the right direction and help rebuild confidence in eu financial markets, which has been significantly damaged by numerous scandals involving manipulation of interbank interest rates and commodity indices (e.g. oil, natural gas and biofuels) or exchange rates. it should be noted that market indicators affect the prices of financial instruments in the trillions of euros. they are also important for financial markets, mortgages and the savings of millions of union citizens. however, as yet, they are neither regulated nor supervised. the european parliament's document suggests that the establishment and application of indicators should be supervised by the relevant institutions in the eu countries where the indicator is produced. for critical indicators, i.e. benchmarks for financial instruments with a value of at least eur 500 billion, additional scrutiny is to be carried out by an international college of supervisors, whose work is coordinated by the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a transparent process for monitoring financial indicators in the market. the cause of the continuing scandals resulting from the manipulation of financial instruments should be eliminated. the lack of confidence of investors in both the interbank euro interest rate and the london rate is causing huge losses for market participants. the global consequences are a weakening of the economy, and therefore a rise in mortgage interest rates, loans or currency fluctuations. i am in favour of the agreement between the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs and the council on the creation of three categories of indicators to be monitored.
in writing. ‒ to fulfil its tasks, the eib grants loans and guarantees on a non-profit basis to facilitate the financing of projects in all sectors of the economy. in 2014, the eib financed, among others, 285 000 smes, securing 3.6 million jobs and contracts for 413 projects in the european union (in total) at a cost of eur 69 billion, as well as 92 new projects outside the eu for eur 7.98 billion. in the same year, the eif allocated eur 3.3 billion (from equity and guarantees) to smaller enterprises. this successfully delivered one of the eib's most ambitious business plans, totalling eur 80.3 billion in eib group financing. in 2012, the member states agreed to increase the eib's capital by eur 10 billion. the report's issues are first and foremost calls for a stronger european union. the author sees the eu as a 'convergence engine' and calls for 'strengthening european integration'. moreover, 'strengthening and developing the european investment bank's network within the eu' can have a significant budgetary impact and is not necessary. the rapporteur also calls for the further development of the efsi and calls on the eib to stop funding motorways. in view of the above, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report covers 21 special reports produced by the court of auditors in the context of the discharge to the european commission for 2014, including special report no 18/2014 on 'europeaid's performance-based evaluation and monitoring systems', special report no 22/2014 on 'harnessing savings: how to keep costs of eu-funded rural development projects under control', special report no 9/2015 on 'eu support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty', etc. the co-rapporteur of the ecr, mr a. vistisen, made a number of amendments concerning the use of eu funds allocated to foreign ngos. the report is comprehensive and positive, but contains a number of paragraphs that cannot be supported. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report covers 21 special reports produced by the court of auditors in the context of the discharge to the european commission for 2014, including special report no 18/2014 on 'europeaid's performance-based evaluation and monitoring systems', special report no 22/2014 on 'harnessing savings: how to keep costs of eu-funded rural development projects under control', special report no 9/2015 on 'eu support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty', etc. the co-rapporteur of the ecr, mr a. vistisen, made a number of amendments concerning the use of eu funds allocated to foreign ngos. this is a comprehensive report, but it contains a number of paragraphs that cannot be supported. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is based on the audits of the european court of auditors (eca), the replies of dg devco and the european investment bank (eib) to the cont questionnaires and the cases raised at the hearings and exchanges of views at the end of 2015. the rapporteur recalls the need to improve and strengthen the oversight of operations and the management certification process, in particular as regards the accountability of heads of union delegations for the performance of their management, supervisory and reporting tasks. there are concerns about the credibility of the new financial assistance instruments (such as trust funds) and the relevant monitoring systems, as well as concerns about the lack of access to documents on the acp investment facility (ebi). for the financial year 2014, the error rate for the european development fund (edf) expenditure is 3,8%. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 discharge report to the european commission (ec) and the executive agencies focuses on compliance and results. in its annual report on the eu budget, the european court of auditors (eca) calls for a new approach to the management of eu investment and expenditure and for the budget to be better aligned with the eu's long-term strategic objectives. this new approach was consistently reflected in the rapporteur's report. the estimated level of error for payments for 2014 was 4,4%, which is close to the level of 2013 (4,5%), and consistently exceeds the materiality threshold of 2%. it is worth mentioning that the eto found the same estimated level of error of 4,6% for shared management with member states and for expenditure managed directly by the commission. the highest levels of error were found in expenditure under the headings 'economic, social and territorial cohesion' (5.7%) and 'competitiveness for growth and jobs' (5.6%). in a joint statement, the united kingdom and sweden regret that for the 21st consecutive year, the eto has not been able to issue a certificate of assurance without reservations with regard to the eu budget as a whole. with that in mind, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the report presented, the court of auditors found the financial operations of the european parliament to be in order in 2014, when the final amount of the appropriations at the disposal of the parliament was eur 1 755 631 742, or 20,13% of the funds allocated to administrative expenditure of all the union institutions. the total amount of revenue entered in the accounts at the end of december 2014 was eur 174 436 852, of which eur 26 979 032 was assigned revenue. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. despite the fact that the ep's financial activities were found to be sound, the court of auditors recommended greater transparency in the expenditure of european political parties, stronger controls on the reimbursement of costs by these parties to organisations associated with them and the development of appropriate public procurement rules and monitoring of their application. today's vote reflects the european parliament's receipt of the discharge for 2014.
in writing. ‒ we managed to reach compromises on many key issues in an effort to accommodate the need for greater transparency, reiterated as in previous years. i welcome the rapporteur’s approach, taking on board concerns voiced by many colleagues and giving the highest priority to the security of meps, ep staff and premises. i welcome the reduction of the error rate (from 1% in 2013 to 0.5% in 2014) which shows that parliament’s reputation is clearly improving, and for that i would like to express appreciation for president schulz and secretary-general klaus welle. as an institution that grants discharge, we serve as an example.
in writing. ‒ several key issues were identified in 2014. in paragraph 33, the rapporteur expresses concern about: the indirect use of ep staff to assist in the preparation of the campaign of the president as the leading candidate during the 2014 european elections; the institutional campaign conducted by parliament before the 2014 european elections; and the management of the system of funding for visitor groups, which remains a problematic area of high risk for the court of auditors. in 2014, 71,15% of the amount of eur 22 281 749,46 was paid in cash and only 28,85% of this amount was paid by bank transfer; the budget allocated to european political parties and foundations is constantly increasing; the budget allocated to the european parliament's visitor centre increased by 24% compared to the previous year, while the number of visitors increased by only 1%; the house of european history is experiencing further delays; the deficit of the voluntary pension fund has increased to eur 242,6 million; the reimbursement of general expenses has not been controlled. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in view of the call for a deferral of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is based on the audit of the european court of auditors, documents provided by the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) and written answers to questions in the cont questionnaire. the court of auditors found that, overall, there were no material errors in payments for the year ended 31 december 2014. in 2014, the budget of the eusr, which is entirely administrative, amounted to eur 355 367 500 (eur 354 880 000 in 2013) and the implementation rate was 99% (96,3% in 2013). the ecr rapporteur is satisfied with the overall result, but believes that there is still room for improvement in the coming years. welcomes the court of auditors' plan to carry out a review to assess the performance of the cjeu; the rapporteur requested that all information on the external activities of each judge be made available to the public. it is worth noting that the provisions on whistleblowing have finally been adopted. however, i have decided to vote against it. the ecr rapporteur, a. vistisen, is satisfied with the overall result, but believes that there is still room for improvement in the coming years. welcomes the court of auditors' plan to carry out a review to assess the performance of the cjeu; mr vistisen requested that all information on the external activities of each judge be made available to the public. it is worth noting that the provisions on whistleblowing have finally been adopted.
in writing. ‒ following the court's report last november, parliament is now voting on its own report. the rapporteur has dealt with the issue of special reports, among other things. the timeframe for the special report, although shortened since 2008, has not yet reached the target of 18 months. the objective must be realistic so as not to reduce the quality of the reports. in addition, the recommendations in special reports are often vague - reports should disclose both positive and negative information on individual country results. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur has identified several critical aspects of the committee's functioning, in particular with regard to the rules on whistleblowing, conflicts of interest and the so-called revolving door problem. in this regard, the report calls on the committee to publish and enforce without further delay and to inform the discharge authority of its progress in implementing the budget in its annual activity report. the report also criticises the committee's lack of progress on reporting irregularities since 2013 despite the 2013 and 2014 civil service tribunal judgments and the ep discharge decision of 29 april 2016 and calls on the committee to address this issue without further delay. calls on the committee to publish the cvs and declarations of interests of all members and senior management and to adopt an internal policy and clear rules on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the revolving door problem by the end of june 2016; the rapporteur also points to the high number of delegations, travel and subsistence costs generated by the many visits and meetings of members (eur 8 277 556) paid by the committee to external lessees, delays in the introduction of portable videoconferencing and shortcomings in terms of projects and applications. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the problems identified by the court of auditors and the rapporteur include staffing issues. first, there is a need for better representation between member states and the eu institutions, as well as between member states themselves. a balance should be struck between staff from member states and from eu institutions. in delegations, the personal profile should be optimised and a proper geographical balance should be established. the number of national experts is also too high (407 in 2014: 350 at headquarters and 57 in delegations). the examination and clarification of their powers, expenditure from the eeas budget and possible conflict of interest are required. the special representatives should be more integrated into the administrative and senior management structure in order to improve interaction and coordination, create synergies and ensure financial efficiency. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur pointed out the problem of the high number of delegations of the ombudsman's staff between brussels and strasbourg - 212 in 2014 - costing eur 126 000 plus around eur 60 000 for lost working time during the journey. the rapporteur called for a reduction in the number of delegations and for maximum use of videoconferencing and other related technical facilities. in addition, the rapporteur highlighted the problem of the ombudsman's employment policy. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the commission on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures provided for in article 108 (3) tfeu. several contract staff were recruited in 2014 without any selection procedure. the ombudsman should apply the selection criteria for the european civil service to his staff in accordance with standards of quality, transparency, objectivity and equal opportunities. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ there have been a number of significant attacks on hospitals and schools in situations of armed conflict in recent months, including attacks on msf facilities in afghanistan, yemen and rebel-held towns in syria. international humanitarian law, including the 1949 geneva conventions, aims to prevent attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure. the eu's guidelines on promoting respect for international humanitarian law were adopted at the 2009 foreign affairs council. the foreign affairs council then drew attention to the importance of the accountability mechanism and stressed the role of the international criminal court (icc) in cases where the states liable are unwilling or unable to investigate violations of international humanitarian law and, where appropriate, to prosecute the perpetrators. all state and non-state actors should adhere to the principles of international humanitarian law, and the eu and its member states should promote respect for international humanitarian law. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, there has been a significant increase in the frequency of attacks on hospitals and schools during armed conflicts, particularly in kenya, nigeria, afghanistan, syria and pakistan. there is no excuse for this kind of bestial behavior. this is not only a violation of the basic conventions of international law and humanitarian aid, but above all a total disregard for human life. the european parliament's attention to the issue of attacks on hospitals and schools should therefore be considered a valuable initiative. unfortunately, the final text of the resolution goes far beyond the previously established thematic scope and has been used by some extreme political groups to express their views rather than a fair assessment of the situation. i therefore voted against the resolution as it stands.
in writing. ‒ the eu domestic and care workers sector is a major challenge for those who stand on the side of human dignity and workers' rights. people who do this type of work as a job have the lowest qualifications. it is usually a hard life situation that forces them to work this way, so they accept both low pay and unpleasant working conditions. it's mostly gray area work, and the workers are usually women. as guardians of the rule of law, we should ensure that this situation is regulated in such a way that the most vulnerable people in the labour market are not harmed. every man has the right to dignity, to a fair wage for his work. the more so the people who often cannot fight for their rights, should not suffer because of the gaps in the legislative system.
in writing. ‒ colleagues, women make up a significant proportion of those who do housework and care work, often in a gray area or for very low pay. in many member states, there is a lack of legislation regulating this market and of a definition of domestic and care work. this is essential, especially as the ageing of europe's population will increase the need for this. we must therefore regulate this segment of the workforce by adopting appropriate regulations at european level, which will help to counter the grey area and to gain recognition and respect for those who do this work. that is why i voted in favour of mrs kuneva's report on women in domestic and care work in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the issue of regulating the status of domestic and care workers is of paramount importance to the european economy. in recent decades, the old continent has witnessed significant demographic and socio-economic changes. the population is aging, while the birth rate is falling. family life patterns are also changing, with the result that the closest family has less and less opportunity to care for its most needy members. in addition, women are becoming more active in the labour market, which means that the tasks traditionally performed by them must be taken over by their carers. the employment of domestic and care workers should be a free choice of occupation, ensuring that workers in these sectors enjoy adequate conditions in terms of rights, social and health insurance, social benefits, and a dignified life and prospects for personal development. it is therefore difficult to accept a situation in which the growing demand for domestic and care work is met in a grey area due to the need to reduce public expenditure and the possibility of using inward labour from third countries. however, i believe that the proposals in the european parliament's report are too much an interference with the private life of citizens, with the relations between the state and the citizen and with the competences of the member states. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ our lives are very different from those of our grandparents or parents. not only has the lifestyle changed, the quality of life, but also the roles of men and women in family and social life. now we share household chores because both women and men are advancing in their careers. unfortunately, in the job market, we still have to deal with many stereotypes. this leads to gender differences in education and then to gender differences in pay for similar jobs. such inequalities have a negative impact on the economy, especially now that there is a shortage of workers, including highly skilled workers in the digital sphere. this gap can be filled by women who have not had the support to pursue technology education. it is necessary to support the integration and participation of women in the digital society and to use the opportunities of digitalisation to improve working conditions, such as increasing their mobility and flexibility. the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive and integrated approach to the digital economy, based on the principles of the digital single market and the digital economy. encouraging and enabling women to work in the digital sector will support the labour market and the economy, with an estimated €9 billion a year.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on internet access as a global tool used in family life, leisure, work, study and learning. calls on the member states to prosecute online homophobic and transphobic crimes, cases of harassment or violence against women as a result of misogyny, homophobia or transphobia, and to join the process related to the proposed directive on the presence of women on boards; favourable credit conditions for companies in which at least 40% of the workforce is female; references to the protection of fundamental workers' rights, collective bargaining, tax and benefit systems. the report also includes positive elements such as the importance of keeping the administrative burden on businesses as low as possible; the importance of ict and internet training for women over 55, women with disabilities and those living in rural areas; the need for more women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics professions; the principle of equal pay for equal work; flexible working hours for parents with internet access; and suggests that free broadband internet access would give women greater opportunities in the labour market. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the european commission under the presidency of jean-claude juncker has identified the completion of the digital single market as one of its main priorities. the digital revolution not only promotes the development of an innovative economy, but also contributes to a more participatory and inclusive society, where gender equality is preserved. given that only 1/10 of programmers are women, who represent only 20% of entrepreneurs in the digital sector, it is necessary to agree with the european parliament's position that stereotypes about women and technology should be fought. this should be done in particular through school education, which should provide computer and information technology, coding and new media. the report also noted that greater eu funding support for women entrepreneurs setting up ict start-ups could bring tangible benefits to all eu citizens. the document also highlights the dangers of misogyny, homophobia and transphobia, which have become widespread thanks to the widespread availability of the internet. it is therefore necessary to step up the efforts of national authorities to prosecute digital crimes more effectively.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. today we are reading, among other things, a report on new territorial development tools in cohesion policy. it is one of the flagship policies of the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european solidarity corps (eusf) is based on the principle of the european union's financial contribution to the european solidarity corps (eusf). the next report focuses on mountain regions in need of support. there are separate strategies for peripheral areas, the alps and the danube region, but no common strategy for the eu's border regions. i am thinking here of the land border of the union, for example the eastern polish voivodships such as lublin. there is therefore a great need for a specific strategy, especially in the context of possible migratory pressure in this direction. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm very glad you don't have a problem with my statement. we are talking about cohesion policy here, so i prefer to refer to specific figures. you speak in hungarian, and i would remind you that during the hungarian presidency your country secured special funding for its policy towards the danube region. i therefore focus my remarks on the fact that this policy should also cover other areas, for example eastern poland, lublin, where i come from.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is the main investment policy. in many places in europe, these policies are the main source of investment that creates jobs and growth. businesses, local governments, ngos, many other beneficiaries are waiting for these funds. we're halfway through 2016, and we're debating a slow start and a lack of implementation. and i think we should be setting the direction of the next financial perspective and working on it. the only way to speed up implementation is by simplifying. we need more trust at every level of management and implementation of the structural funds. acceleration will not be possible without strengthening the capacity of local and regional authorities. this is particularly evident in the case of new tools such as community-led local development. they have a great potential, but unfortunately, the complexity of the procedures means that they are not fully exploited. when developing further recommendations, we should first listen to the beneficiaries of cohesion policy.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on the level of implementation has a major impact on the shape of cohesion policy after 2020. if this discussion leads to the conclusion that there is ineffectiveness, this will lead to a reduction or a diminishment of the policy. therefore, there is an urgent need to answer the question why we are facing low implementation: is it because there are too complicated procedures, is it because some legislation is still not ready, is it because national legislation is not adapted, or is it because beneficiaries are somehow to blame? the answer to these questions is truly urgent. we need it if we are to work towards new solutions. the proposals should lead to immediate change when the budget is revised. we have three years left and we can't wait.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (1). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 may 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the impact of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline on the central and eastern european gas market (2016/2703 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you, commissioner, for a very important statement. today is 9 may, europe day, a celebration of unity, understanding and cooperation. it's good that we're talking about nord stream ii. there can be no doubt - it is clear from all the discussions - that this project is undermining european unity and solidarity, undermining trust and creating tensions between countries. political objections to the project also create investment uncertainty for business. as rapporteur for the regulation on security of gas supply, i would like to stress, as the commissioner has done, that nord stream ii strengthens the monopoly position of a single supplier, contradicts the principle of diversification of supplies and threatens the security of several central european countries. as such, it concerns the whole of the union, not just a few countries. environmental concerns are raised, as are concerns about the development of the baltic sea economy and commitments to ukraine. the project should therefore not receive any support from the european union and should be subject to union law without exception. in this context, i would like to ask the commissioner and the european commission whether in line with the conclusions of the european council of december 2015 the commission has formally addressed the german authorities on the application of the third energy package to nord stream ii?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the nord stream project is a test for the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the council will then be able to submit its proposal to the council for adoption by the end of the year. who can believe the assurances of the nord stream consortium that this project is purely commercial and not political, when we know that russia uses gas as a political weapon to achieve its neo-imperial goals, when we know that the capacity of existing gas pipelines to deliver gas from russia to the eu already far exceeds the union's demand for russian gas. this project would increase the dependence of the union countries on russia, which already accounts for more than one third of the gas imported by the union. five member states depend on russia as the only external supplier of all imported gas. this investment would further deepen the east-west divide in europe and allow russia to easily bypass ukraine as a transit country to the european union, depriving ukraine of some $2 billion a year in transit fee revenue, potentially destabilizing ukraine. and yet we have devoted so many words to the democratic and economic development of this country. the commission acknowledges that the nord stram 2 construction project is not economically justified and that it is contrary to the union's energy objectives such as increasing security of supply or diversification. so how does the commission intend to counter these potential negative effects? it is also clear that a pipeline passing through territories where eu law applies should also be subject to that law in its subsea part. has the commission - to repeat the question of the prime minister, professor buzka - made an official request to the german authorities regarding the application of the third energy package to nord stream 2?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i hope that this debate will be practical, that is, that it will have an impact on the strategy of the european commission and reach the companies involved in this project. the european union today is facing many problems, it needs projects that unite rather than disintegrate, it needs demonstrations such as those that took place on the streets of warsaw last saturday. the nord stream 2 project is a disintegration factor. the more you get involved in economic issues, the more you realize that this is not a commercial project. the more one looks at the geopolitical circumstances or the rationale of the energy union, the more one sees the contradiction between the principles of diversification and independence from a monopolistic supplier and the nord stream 2 project. so, without prolonging this debate, i hope that the european commission will free us from this problem and then we can deal with other challenges that are not lacking in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. all of us here, representing both the european parliament and the european commission, are aware that this project is not only an economic but above all a political project that affects the energy security of many european union countries, including poland. according to the latest forecasts, the demand for natural gas in the european union as a whole is not expected to increase significantly in the coming years in this case, the expansion of the russian transmission infrastructure is certainly not economically justified. this is confirmed by the fact that the cost of building the next strands is estimated at around eur 10 billion, while the estimated cost of upgrading the transmission infrastructure in ukraine is half that amount. furthermore, nord stream 2 prevents the development of the port of świnoujście, which has already been mentioned very often and which is a political issue at this point. the negative arguments or conclusions have already been presented several times during meetings and debates in parliament and the commission. however, further questions remain, including: how does the commission intend to support projects that bring real diversification or eliminate bottlenecks within the european union? because these are the real needs when it comes to energy infrastructure in the european union, as opposed to the additional transmission capacity in russia. a few weeks ago, during a debate in the european parliament, commissioner šefčovič suggested signing an international agreement between germany and russia regulating the legal status of nord stream 2. what is the german government's position on this proposal? what arguments does the european commission use to persuade germany to take such a step? does the nord stream thread come up in discussions with partners outside the eu, for example the us? what is the position of our key us partners on this issue and will it be taken into account by the european commission?
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. this information has been given in this room before, but for the sake of clarity, i'll just recap. the existing gas infrastructure allows for the transmission of nearly 250 billion cubic metres of gas from russia to europe, while gas imports by the union from russia in 2014 amounted to around 120 billion cubic metres, i.e. less than 50% of the transmission capacity was used. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully exploit the lng market in the union. this means that as much as 75% of this infrastructure is unused, which in absolute terms amounts to 150 billion cubic metres of gas, which is clearly more than the union imports from russia. thirdly, following the commissioning of the first two nord stream pipelines, the capacity utilisation of gas pipelines through the territory of ukraine in 2014 fell sharply from 58% to 28%, while the utilisation of the first two nord stream pipelines increased from 36% to 60%, which means that the main objective of nord stream 2 will be to increase russian transmission capacity and thus to eliminate the transmission of gas through ukraine altogether and to make it difficult or even impossible to deliver russian gas to slovakia and other countries of central and eastern europe. so my final question is: does the commission not think that the commission should be more firm in its approach to this project? (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
the question asked by raising the blue card. nord stream 2 is a political project, so i wanted to note that professor kuzmiuk said that ukraine gets two billion a year from it, that the cost of its location is ten billion, but poland or slovakia also take money. the non-payment of the two billion a year to ukraine, maybe there's some economic justification, right? but i am surprised that no one says - although this is an important question - about the country most threatened by nord stream 2, belarus.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there is no doubt that transit countries make money by charging for gas transfers, but since we are one body in the european union, european solidarity should be based on the interests of the member states being taken into account first. i would remind you that ukraine is an associated country and that we should indeed, in the spirit of european solidarity, look after these interests. nord stream 2 clearly serves those interests and that should be our argument against this investment.
madam president! i'll skip the economic part because i don't have time. we've already talked about this, and it's not an economic argument. i also omit the issue of the legality and compliance of this project with european union law, international law, environmental law, etc. because even if the investors comply with the required regulations, it is still a bad project because it is against the idea and the most important principles of the european union, including the energy union. this is a project that compromises the security of supply. this is a project that violates the principle of diversification, including the principle of diversification of sources, suppliers and supply routes. this is a project that violates the principle of competitiveness. and finally, and most importantly, this is a project that violates the principle of solidarity and trust. and what more do we need in the european union today than solidarity and mutual trust?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. today's debate clearly shows how controversial and complex the nord stream 2 project is. it goes far beyond the framework of central and eastern europe itself, and beyond strictly energy issues. i think we might be tempted to say that it focuses like a lens on the state of the european union today. it will show whether we are able to act in solidarity in the interests of europe as a whole, how resilient we are to outside influences, including the 'work and govern' strategy, and finally how seriously we take the principles we have adopted. i therefore strongly support the european commission to thoroughly examine this project within its competence in terms of its compliance with both the energy union objectives and european law. i am convinced that if this analysis is reliable, the result will be unequivocally negative for nord stream 2.
in writing. – interestingly, on europe day, while celebrating the european continent’s unity, we are confronted with a project that divides europe. contrary to some opinions, the nord stream 2 gas pipeline is not a commercial venture – it is a purely political project hampering mutual trust in europe and weakening our energy security. firstly, with the existing pipeline only being used up to about 70% of its capacity, building of a new leg is economically unjustified. secondly, it might have an economic justification only if russia decided to stop the transit through ukraine, thus using gas supplies as a tool of political pressure. we all know that gazprom is not a typical business company – it is a foreign policy instrument of the russian government. moreover, nord stream 2 would violate the key principle of the energy union – diversifying sources of energy. in 2013, 39% of all natural gas imports to the eu were from russia, with several countries being fully dependent on imports from russia. the debate on nord stream 2 shows that some member states only pay lip service to values such as solidarity and security. this must change if we want to show european citizens that the eu is still a legitimate project.
in writing. there is no doubt that the planned construction of nord stream 2 is detrimental to energy security, but also to other vital interests of the countries of central and eastern europe. first, after the construction of the second nord stream pipeline, these countries could be cut off from russian gas at any time - for political reasons, for example - from which they are still heavily dependent. russia will be able to supply its strategic gas market, i.e. western europe, with the exception of ukraine, without disruption. second, if the controversial investment is implemented, the countries of the region could lose billions of euros in fees for gas transit through existing onshore pipelines. third, the entire continent will become more dependent on russian gas, and this will happen shortly after the adoption of the so-called energy union, which assumes the diversification of energy sources in europe. it is therefore clear that nord stream 2 is contrary to the adopted eu energy policy and, moreover, has a questionable economic justification, given that its first strand is only half-used. the eu's priority should be to develop interconnectors between countries in order to increase the efficiency of the system and its resilience to possible supply constraints to certain countries.
madam president, the fish and agriculture products offered for sale to consumers in retail catering or canteens must be properly labelled. unfortunately, in recent years the so-called seafood fraud, the selling of seafood products with misleading or no label, has become a widespread form of food fraud. not only does it threaten the bottom line of honest fishers and seafood traders, it also undermines the objectives of the cfp, the progress made by the sustainable fisheries, and it can allow illegal and unregulated fishing practices to go undetected. our question today is based on the recently published study concerning restaurants in brussels, but the truth is that a global analysis suggests that over 30% of seafood products are mislabelled. and i believe we all remember what happened in 2013 with the horsemeat scandal, which shocked the european food industry. it emphasised the challenges in monitoring every step of the complex global food chain supply. the importance of traceability through all stages of production, processing and distribution rose on the public and political agenda. do we need to repeat this scandal again before we draw certain conclusions? i hope not, because it is important that we secure sustainable sources and that these sustainable sources provide the proper legal labelling.
rapporteur.– mr president, the first ever eu fisheries agreement with liberia and its associated implementation protocol were signed and entered into a provisional application in december 2015. their conclusion will be subject to the approval of our house this coming week. it is important to sustain a good relationship with liberia. therefore, this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) will be a very good tool to do so, but i believe it will also benefit the european union as a whole. the eu and liberia already cooperate through multilateral agreements such as the united nations convention on the law of the sea. in addition to that, liberia cooperates with the eu in terms of fighting against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the new agreement will provide a framework for taking into account the priorities of the reformed cfp and its external dimensions, with a view to establishing a strategic partnership between the european union and liberia. the main objective of the new protocol is to provide fishing opportunities to union vessels in the liberian fishing zone. the protocol offers opportunities to 34 tuna vessels from spain and france based on the reference tonnage of 6 500 tonnes per year. in return, the eu will pay an average annual contribution of eur 650 000, split equally between access rights and sectoral support for liberia’s fishing policy. the aim is also to enhance cooperation between the eu and liberia to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and a sound exploitation of fisheries resources in liberia’s fishing zone in the interest of both sides. i therefore encourage this house to vote in favour of this agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements between the european union and the republic of liberia and mauritania are acceptable and should be good agreements, because the very words and phrases partnership, sustainable fisheries, cooperation in combating iuu fishing, scientific cooperation, coherence of fisheries policy, synergy of action, non-discrimination between other fleets, constant monitoring indicate that the benefits are mutual and good for the protection of living resources. i have one comment, and one request and one appeal. well, with tuna fishing, we're catching a lot of sharks, whether we like it or not. and while many believe that the shark is a blood-eating beast, even that view does not authorize man to practice the barbaric practice of "shark finning", whereby the wings are cut off and the shark's living body is thrown back into the water, causing it to slowly die in agony. we know that there is a total ban on shark finning on ships in european union waters, but i am not sure that such a ban will also apply in these agreements. i therefore ask and appeal that the joint committee on fisheries intelligence should take a close look at this and carry out a detailed inspection of this matter.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to thank everyone for contributing to our debate this evening. every single voice was important because it gave us additional input to what exactly we want with these unique and sustainable agreements with these two countries. my only wish is that, at some point in time, at least one of our debates about fisheries could take place at a more reasonable time of the day instead of just before midnight.
mr. chairman, please! of course, china is not a market economy, but none of the countries in the european union are a market economy, and all of the governments interfere with the market in a much greater way than in china. i wanted to ask you, do you realize that the chinese are also buying things from us, and if we buy cheaper steel, then the mercedes will become cheaper and the chinese will be able to buy more of them, but also the europeans will be able to buy more of these mercedes? i'm surprised that none of the socialists in this room care about the interests of the common man, they only care about the interests of big industry, in this case steel. i'm asking miss le pen or mr bütikofer, if the chinese promised to give us free steel for ten years, should we take it or not? because it's a good thing if they give for free, right? and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
mr president, nothing in this discussion is anti-china. we need to have a good relationship with them, but we need to decide the rules by which this relationship in trade and economic issues is played. china today has a massive overcapacity in many things we produce, from steel to chemicals. it is an economy that functions on the idea of flooding our markets with their subsidised production. whether we like it or not, free trade is on the defence. people are waking up to the fact that ideological free trade has a massive cost on society and on workers. granting china market economy status is yet another step in this direction. we cannot subject our companies to the oncoming onslaught of chinese export without any means of defence, and we will not. we believe that there is sufficient room in the remaining provisions of article 15 of china’s wto protocol to warrant a china-specific methodology, and we ask the commission to include this in its proposal.
in writing. under the rules of the world trade organisation, countries that join the organisation may be considered 'free market economies' for 15 years after accession. products from countries not having such status may be subject to higher than normal duties in order to protect the internal market from dumping and unfair competition. for china, the transitional period expires on 11 december 2016. however, 15 years after its accession to the wto, china has still not implemented the reforms necessary to be considered a free market economy. five eu criteria, such as respect for property rights and an economy free from state influence, were not met. in this respect, the european parliament's position on the non-acceptance of the automatic granting of market economy status seems to be most appropriate. this is particularly important, because otherwise the interests of european companies and hundreds of thousands of jobs could be seriously jeopardised. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers. before taking a final decision, the eu should first assess the impact of this decision on jobs and industry, and then adopt appropriate regulations to ensure a balanced start and protect the most vulnerable sectors, such as the chemical, metallurgical and related industries. otherwise, we risk an uncontrolled flood of chinese products into our market.
in writing. ‒ the commission was required to present to parliament and the council several feasibility studies on the extension of the obligation to indicate the origin of certain categories of food. they do not contain any legal proposal, as such a proposal would, according to the commission, have to increase the cost to the industry and consumers are not willing to bear the additional costs. i support the principle of mandatory country of origin labelling of food where it is practical and consistent with consumer needs. i therefore do not share the commission's conclusion. the commission's analysis is useful, but the conclusion does not address the important aspects, i.e. the benefits of better consumer information. mandatory labels already exist for many products, including meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables, fish, honey, oils, wines and alcoholic beverages. the call to the commission to come forward with a proposal for a mandatory labelling which would be limited to milk and lightly processed dairy products such as cheese and cream, as well as lightly processed meats (i.e. bacon and sausages) should be accepted if there is evidence of consumer interest in such information. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to transpose into eu law the rules on subsidies and countervailing measures (subsidies agreement) of the world trade organisation (wto). the regulation lays down the detailed conditions determining the existence of a subsidy, the rules governing the application of countervailing duties which may be imposed in order to offset any subsidy granted, directly or indirectly, for the manufacture, production, export or import of any product whose release for free circulation in the eu causes injury, and the criteria to be used in calculating the amount of countervailable subsidy. the purpose of the regulation is to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping provisions contained in the agreement on the application of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. in view of the unifying nature of the legislation, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean. the 246 152 km2 exclusive economic zone is home to many bottom-dwelling and pelagic fish stocks. the commission carried out an ex-ante assessment in 2013 of a possible sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia. the procedural document concluded that the union tuna fisheries sector has a strong interest in the fisheries in liberia and that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement would help improve monitoring, control and surveillance and contribute to improving fisheries management in the region. in view of the above arguments, i have expressed my support for the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania initiated in 2015 a new four-year protocol which allows eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for around 300 000 tonnes of shrimp, demersal, tuna and small pelagic fish per year. in line with the union's fisheries policy, the protocol will contribute to responsible fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources, including greater transparency. the aim is to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems and to preserve mauritania's traditional coastal fishing. considering all these aspects, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the negotiated agreement is to stimulate, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of civil global navigation by satellite within the framework of the european and korean involvement in the gnss system. it is an initiative which i personally support, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in a world where accurate location and time information is of the utmost importance, action is needed on a global satellite navigation system. as early as the 1990s, the european union began work on the largest industrial project in the integrated european structures - the galileo programme, which aims to ensure satellite independence from the us for the eu countries. the eu's galileo project has also attracted interest from outside the community due to its innovative nature. in 2006, south korea and the european union concluded talks on korea's participation in the programme. the agreement provides for cooperation in scientific research, training, market development and trade. it also involves industrial cooperation and cooperation in the development of legislation, standardisation, certification and the development of regional aid schemes. the conclusion of the agreement with korea reaffirms the european union's commitment to the development of international cooperation. the growing interest of third countries in galileo is stimulating a market for gnss-based services with an estimated potential of 3 billion receivers and global revenues of eur 275 billion per year by 2020. the european parliament's agreement to the agreement with korea is a symbolic confirmation of the need to intensify international cooperation in the field of satellite navigation under the leadership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the cooperation agreement on a civil global satellite navigation system between the eu and the republic of korea is further evidence of the high level of interest, but also of the need for the full implementation of the eu's galileo satellite navigation programme. this is a very important initiative that deserves our support. at present, 12 of the 30 planned galileo satellites are in orbit. by the end of this year, six more satellites are planned to be placed in orbit. the acceleration of the work on this system is due to the urgent need to build an autonomous, alternative to gps, but at the same time compatible with it, global positioning system. galileo will be even more accurate than its competitors and thus have a huge commercial potential, as most of its services will be open to a wide range of users. international cooperation in implementing, but also exploiting, galileo's potential is key to its success. we want our eu partners to be aware of our capabilities and to have access to the technologies we are developing. the agreement with the republic of south korea is proof that galileo is and will be an added value and that our partners want to benefit from the skills we offer.
in writing. ‒ under the european structural and investment funds (esif), integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), initiatives are a significant step forward in developing the capacity of local actors to link funding streams and well-targeted local initiative plans. i believe that the commission's focus on results and outcomes should also help local policy to move away from over-absorbing funds towards actually identifying concrete objectives that will bring about concrete change. targeted action is necessary to bring these tools closer to local actors and to build their capacity to participate effectively in strategies targeting their territory. therefore, i have voted yes.
in writing. ‒ under the european structural and investment funds (esif), integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), initiatives are a significant step forward in developing the capacity of local actors to link funding streams and well-targeted local initiative plans. the commission's focus on results and outcomes should also help local policy to move away from over-absorbing funds towards actually identifying concrete objectives that will bring about concrete changes for local businesses and residents. member states were required to indicate in their partnership agreements how the iti and clld would be applied by member states and to indicate the types of areas and challenges covered by these mechanisms. the bottom-up approach is of great importance, as is the involvement of local actors in the use of the new instruments, which will contribute to better coordination and a more targeted use of the esi funds. targeted action is necessary to bring these tools closer to local actors and to build their capacity to participate effectively in strategies targeting their territory. it is also important to use the multi-fund opportunities created by the new rules, which should be used in such a way as to achieve a truly integrated/holistic approach to cohesion policy interventions. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ this document focuses on the development needs and potential of mountain regions in the european union to become a source of jobs and sustainable growth. it calls for the definition of mountain regions from a regional policy perspective. the document proposes an 'agenda for the eu's mountain regions' which would provide an additional framework within cohesion policy focusing on these regions and calls for coordination of eu policies that have an impact on these areas. i supported the tabling of a number of amendments concerning the carpathian region. however, the amendment calling for a separate strategy for the carpathian region and rejecting the idea of including this region in the danube macro-regional strategy was rejected. i abstained because of the rejection of the amendments i supported.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy rarely focuses on the eu's mountain regions, which often leave them on the margins. the difficulties in investing in these areas are mainly due to the lack of adequate infrastructure and therefore to the additional costs of distance from larger conglomerates. i welcome the outcome of today's vote, which reflects the need to define precisely the mountain regions, to make a concrete policy proposal for these areas in future eu policies and programmes, especially in the framework of the european structural and investment funds. mountain areas are attractive for tourism, but they are also often rich in natural resources, the exploitation of which can improve employment by creating new jobs, especially 'green' ones, which support sustainable development. the wide variety of renewable energy sources can contribute to the achievement of the union's energy policy objectives. the development of many of these assets, in combination with eu funds, will lead to greater social, economic and territorial cohesion in mountain areas. only a coordinated, holistic approach to these regions can be essential to ensure that union funding is properly targeted towards achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that eu policy should take a special approach to mountain regions. similarly, the potential and importance of macro-regional strategies for the sustainable development of eu mountain regions with a strong cross-border cooperation dimension. however, it is difficult to agree that the carpathians constitute a danube subregion. in the face of the large economic and social disparities, it is virtually impossible to reconcile the interests of the carpathian region with those of the danube region. of course, cooperation must continue in areas such as flood control and nature protection, but in many other areas it is much more difficult to do so. the carpathian region is an extremely important geopolitical area today, where the strategic political interests of the eu as a whole intersect. the carpathians as a region meet the criteria of the macro-regional strategies described by the european commission. therefore, it is far premature to say at this stage that the european parliament welcomes the current initiatives for the carpathian region under the eu strategy for the danube region. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ a proper and thoughtful integration of the cap and cohesion policy can bring great benefits to rural and mountain regions in the eu, contribute to food security, achieve a real leveling of living conditions, counteract negative demographic phenomena and bring numerous benefits. cohesion policy itself can, however, address many of the adverse social and demographic trends by better targeting measures and actions. mountain areas in the eu are home to around 17% of eu citizens, making them an area of great economic and social importance. mountain regions require a special approach due to the difficult management conditions for agriculture, the higher costs of building and maintaining transport infrastructure, and the greater dependence on weather and climate change. at the same time, they are also a treasure trove of culture, tradition and numerous food products known throughout the world, which are an important part of european identity. these areas also face demographic challenges, caused by the outflow of young people to cities, underinvestment and difficulties in accessing broadband internet and modern services. at the same time, these areas have specific potential for renewable energy sources such as wind, hydro and biomass. in this context, it should be borne in mind that the necessary modernisation measures should not unduly affect the local way of life, which is an invaluable asset.
madam president! according to the world bank, 250 million people are affected by or at risk of humanitarian crises. social and economic instability, protracted conflict and natural disasters compound these crises. the may summit in istanbul is intended to highlight the importance of this issue and to find effective solutions to provide support. a very important un initiative was to organise a series of humanitarian consultations within the regions. it's important to remember that international aid should be the last resort we turn to when local aid systems are overwhelmed. therefore, the local capacity to build resilient and self-reliant societies must be significantly supported. as the current crises are long-term, it is crucial to bridge the gap between emergency humanitarian aid and long-term development assistance. i also hope that the summit will not overlook the aspect of adapting all humanitarian action to the diverse needs of the communities affected by crises, especially women, children and people with disabilities. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank you for the question, mr rübig. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we can really help to build our society in this respect if we continue to make good use of the development instruments, including the 0.7% of gdp of the member states. then we can help even more in this area. otherwise we're really gonna get in trouble. but i hope that we can prepare even better in this direction, especially in our deve committee.
madam president! the history of charity and humanitarian aid is as long as the history of mankind. but times change, circumstances change, and so should the methods and tools used to help others. today, millions of people in almost 40 countries are in need of humanitarian aid, and 60 million of these are displaced by conflict. it's a very dangerous phenomenon of the 21st century. so what the world needs today is, among other things, a new humanitarian law. and it seems that we need to reform the outdated and rather ineffective un response system that we have today. so i expect that the world summit will help to address some of the challenges that are so important today, such as the lack of funding, the lack of coordination between organizations and agencies, including the united nations agencies, and the inclusion of non-western donors in the system.
in writing. the upcoming world humanitarian summit aims to improve responses to increasingly frequent, increasingly difficult and protracted humanitarian crises, which are claiming a record number of lives. after a long period of time since the last international discussions on the humanitarian framework, the time has come to engage in dialogue, to develop commitments and a plan of action that will adapt the humanitarian architecture to new challenges and realities, to reshape it and to contribute to a positive change in the entire humanitarian aid system. i am pleased that the consultation leading up to the world humanitarian summit has raised important issues that should be discussed and then incorporated into the post-2016 roadmap. i'm thinking of increasing the involvement of new donors in the humanitarian system, coordinating un agencies to avoid conflicts of competence and improve cooperation between them, and developing new ways to facilitate access to conflict areas, and finally, increasing the involvement of local ngos in needs assessment and aid delivery. i hope that at the forthcoming summit in istanbul we will be able to agree and develop common priorities for international humanitarian aid which take account of the interests of individual eu member states.
madam president! the importance of external factors is increasing in the common agricultural policy. what happens in europe depends on what we do, what we negotiate in the world market, in the global market. we have some analysis on ttip. we signed an agreement with canada, there are other agreements, including with mercosur. does the commission have such a consolidated, overall analysis of the impact that they may have on european agriculture? of course i know that trade is two-way, that we also have to make some compromises, but are we not going too far in these concessions, so that it will have negative consequences for european agriculture, that we will actually have to say goodbye to the european model of agriculture and go in the direction of concentration, increase in production, and consequently greater industrialization, in order to be competitive on the world market?
madam president! i would like to thank mrs mogherini very much for her personal contribution to the region and her personal interest in it. i think this is a very clear signal to our partners in lebanon and jordan that we particularly appreciate what they're doing for refugees from neighboring countries. i think we should first learn politically from the mistakes that we as the west have made in this region. because we made mistakes, there's no need to discuss this. secondly, we should support very strongly, politically, economically, humanitarianally, these two countries to be able to solve the refugee problem, because it is in our basic political, social, economic interest. i would like to thank commissioner mogherini once again.
madam president! today's debate is proof that when we really talk about war refugees, we can talk calmly. we know that lebanon and jordan are countries that have experienced for many months, for over a year, a mass exodus of people who simply crossed the border from war-torn syria and iraq. if we had reacted to what was happening there from the beginning, instead of making statements like president juncker's declarations about the future legalization of illegal immigration, we would have first of all sent a signal that aid could be given where we are actually dealing with war refugees. second, we wouldn't have created the impulse that has led hundreds of thousands of people to make bad life choices. this is a thought-provoking example. of course, it is undeniable that these countries that bear such a heavy burden need to be helped, but let's not confuse these issues with attacks on countries that are simply sober about the phenomenon of organized illegal immigration.
the question asked by raising the blue card. what does it have to do with empathy to repeat ritually for years that there will be no peace talks with the syrian government when we see how houses are being destroyed, how for years tens of thousands of people have to flee, how people are dying of hunger in besieged cities? is looking at all this empathy? really, weigh the words.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in area c of the west bank, which is under israeli civilian and military control, has deteriorated significantly. this year alone, 522 homes and other basic structures such as gardens, wells and cisterns were destroyed or confiscated. humanitarian partners report numerous cases of commodity seizures. since the resumption of the eu-israel structured dialogue in march 2016, 170 palestinian structures, including 49 projects funded by, inter alia, the eu, have been blocked. the demolition orders issued threaten another 2,000 structures in area c financed by european taxpayers' money. i would like to emphasise that the eu's humanitarian action is conducted in accordance with international humanitarian law. they are designed to provide humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable. further damage must be stopped and the losses made must be compensated. the people living in these areas must be provided with stable and dignified living conditions. i hope that the eu-israel meeting in june, in the framework of an organised dialogue, will be a new opening and will contribute to a solution to this difficult humanitarian situation in accordance with international standards.
madam president, what are the crucial elements of our response to terrorism and security threats? many of us pointed out that stronger european cooperation and coordination in this area are essential, and with this a stronger and better—managed europol. this amended regulation is a step in the right direction. it will give us important preventive tools. prevention is at this stage the key. europol will have more access to the relevant data, which in consequence will be processed more efficiently. there will be the data from member states, but also from non-public parties, which is important for effective prevention and investigation. the new internet referral unit (iru) will play an important role in combating terrorist propaganda, radicalisation online and organisation of crime groups. the recognition made by iru and the new model of cooperation with internet providers, will allow to leave out the violent content or start early—warning investigations. on the other hand, we have strengthened the data protection rules that apply to europol so that we can keep the balance and built trust. we have strengthened the possibilities of europol cooperation with other european agencies also, for better synergy and efficiency. what remains valid is that member states must share information with europol for this system to work. otherwise the agency will not be able to work within its full capacity. finally, i want to thank especially the rapporteur augustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra for his determination.
madam president! this is a good decision for the security of the citizens of the european countries and of europe as a whole. i'm sorry he's late. i'm sorry he's late. i'm sorry he was late. i have a feeling that if it weren't for the dramatic terrorist attacks of recent times, the work would have gone even further. opponents of the regulation falsely portray this idea as centralistic and a threat to civil rights. it is a rational idea to increase the powers of europol, including the creation of this unit to monitor suspicious content on the internet, while maintaining a balance and control by parliament. the far right does not trust the european union, and the left, the far left, has today presented a distorted vision of freedom, in which there is no place for security. both tendencies are bad for public debate, it's a good rational decision
in writing. ensuring a high level of harmonised data protection in the european union, including police and judicial action, is crucial for respecting and protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens. close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at national and union level is necessary, based on security and the area of freedom and justice. over the years, europol's operational powers have gradually expanded. recently, units have been created to increase the agency's powers to analyze and combat terrorism. they include the european cybercrime centre and the eu suspicious content unit, which is tasked with combating terrorist propaganda and other extremist activities online. the most recent entity is the european counter-terrorism centre, which was established on 1 january 2016. the new europol regulation (2013/0091 ((cod)), which enters into force in all eu member states on 1 may 2017, establishes legal tools that are intended to contribute to strengthening the security of eu citizens and to the effective fight against terrorism. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of personal data. close european cooperation and coordination between the different bodies is paramount.
in writing. europe's priority now is to fight crime. in this context, the cooperation of the european institutions in combating this practice needs to be improved. the european union should step up its efforts to combat terrorism, trafficking in human beings and drugs, prevent physical and sexual violence against children and curb such widespread cybercrime. the european police must constantly improve its efficiency. europol is a key body in the fight against all the illegal activities that are so common today. we need a better exchange of information. the functioning of the collection, storage and analysis of data needs to be improved. countering terrorist propaganda will make european citizens feel safer and more secure. i would like to point out that the cooperation undertaken to maintain an adequate level of security has been established by the european institutions, but not so comprehensively that it is not necessary to develop a new project to improve the existing system. appropriate rules should be adopted to protect sensitive personal data. the coordination of actions to ensure much-needed security in europe must be improved.
in writing. it is good that the european parliament is working on extending europol's counter-terrorism powers. however, i am critical of the fact that this debate and recommendations are only now being undertaken. there is no doubt that we need to make europe more effective in fighting terrorism and responding to threats more quickly. experience in the fight against terrorism shows that it requires much closer cooperation between the individual states and a strengthened role for europol. this european office, based in the hague, should create and maintain a database on terrorist threats. eu member states should be obliged to provide data to europol so that they can use the information contained in one integrated database themselves, rather than searching for it in each of the 28 eu countries. this also requires an increase in the resources and staff of the european counter-terrorism centre, located within europol. if we are consistent in implementing these measures, this will undoubtedly increase the chances of fighting terrorist threats more effectively.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's a good decision, it's a good thing that we're dealing with two important issues this morning. the first concerns security, the second the openness of europe, because that is what it is all about, free access and good conditions for those who do research, study, and volunteer in europe. this is a matter of europe's global responsibility and also of the competitiveness of our countries. from the point of view of polish experience, this directive is also the most positive factor. i want to tell you that poland is besieged by students from ukraine, by scientists from ukraine. there are thousands of people who want to link their destinies with poland, so it makes sense to bring legislation closer together in this area. all of this has to be linked to the european union's science policy, to cooperation between universities, to better exchanges within the european union itself.
mr. chairman, please! we live in an age of globalization of wealth. it is based on the dissemination of education, knowledge and science. so, acting and sharing knowledge is not only an investment in human capital, but also a building block for development and economic growth. it is also about building bridges of trust between the peoples of other countries and the countries of the old continent. because the people who learn here in the european union then become natural ambassadors of our culture outside our continent. these are not only pro-social but also aimed at increasing mutual understanding and tolerance. for these reasons, the proposed legislation should be strongly supported.
in writing. ‒ the capital requirements regulation (crr) currently exempts commodity traders from large exposure and own funds requirements. both exemptions shall expire on 31 december 2017. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of fraud in the securities settlement system in the union, the number of cases of fraud in the securities settlement system in the union and the number of cases of fraud in the securities settlement system in the union. the review in question is still ongoing. the results of this review will be the basis for establishing the appropriate precautionary approach to traders in goods. the purpose of this proposal is to extend the current system of treatment of these operators. the commission will also consider whether the measures to be taken to address the risk of a loss of capital in the banking sector are appropriate to address the specific risks of the banking sector. i agree with the commission's proposal, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the capital requirements regulation (or crr) currently exempts commodity traders from large exposure and own funds requirements. both exemptions shall expire on 31 december 2017. that date was originally included in the crr to give the commission time to review the prudential supervision system applicable to commodity traders and investment firms by the end of 2015 and, where appropriate, to propose a legislative system adapted to the risk profile of commodity traders and investment firms. the review in question is still ongoing. the results of this review will be the basis for establishing the appropriate precautionary approach to traders in goods. therefore, the purpose of this proposal is to extend the current treatment of traders in commodities until the review of investment firms is completed and any changes to the existing prudential framework are introduced, or until 31 december 2020, whichever is earlier. the commission will also consider whether the measures to be taken to address the risk of a loss of capital in the banking sector are appropriate to address the specific risks of the banking sector. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ exemptions for commodity traders from the large exposure and own funds requirements expire on 31 december 2017. however, the review of investment firms is a complex undertaking which will not be completed by the end of this year. it is therefore very unlikely that any legislation that could be adopted as a result of this review will be prepared, adopted and applied before the expiry of the current exemptions. it is therefore necessary to extend the existing exemptions laid down in the capital requirements regulation. that extension should take into account the time needed to complete the review of investment firms and to prepare, adopt and apply any rules that may result from that review. in the absence of such a requirement, from 2018 onwards traders in goods would be subject to the obligations of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive, which would be disadvantageous for such companies. the fact that parliament has agreed to accept the commission's proposal for exemptions for traders of goods at first reading is the right decision and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this document provides a clear, comprehensive legal framework for europol to enable it to address the many security challenges facing europe. the new draft regulation aims to bring the current council decision on europol (decision 2009/371/jha) into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by establishing a legal framework for europol and by introducing a mechanism for scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament together with national parliaments. the new regulation will lead to a flexible and modern data management system for europol and to the alignment of europol's administrative rules with the general guidelines applicable in the agencies. as a result, europol should become more effective in supporting member states in combating terrorism and other forms of serious crime as effectively as possible. i fully agree with the draft that was discussed, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ a harmonised high level of data protection remains crucial in the times of massive development of advanced technology. eu citizens and in particular their fundamental rights need to be provided with appropriate safeguards. therefore, the soon to be created european data protection board is another necessary step towards improving these safeguards. the work on this subject should however not be stopped and sustainable and gradual development of safety measures could come up regularly on the commission agenda.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to improve global competition for talent and to promote europe as a centre of excellence for education and training. improving competitiveness, stimulating growth and creating jobs. the draft directive provides for common conditions of entry and residence in the eu for researchers, students, trainees and volunteers from third countries participating in european voluntary service. the new rules cover third-country nationals working as researchers or wishing to study in one of the member states. the mobility period for researchers has been increased to six months, making the european union a more attractive place for third-country nationals. in addition, third-country students will be entitled to work at least 15 hours per week (outside of study time) to help cover part of the costs of their studies. on the basis of the arguments mentioned above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to improve global competition for talent and to promote europe as a centre of excellence for education and training. improving competitiveness, stimulating growth and creating jobs. the draft directive provides for common conditions of entry and residence in the eu for researchers, students, trainees and volunteers from third countries participating in european voluntary service. more favourable provisions on the right to work while studying in the eu were removed during the negotiation process. in addition, clearer and stricter rules have been introduced on the need to provide evidence of qualifications and sufficient financial means while staying in the eu. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ facilitating access for talented young people from third countries to research, further education and work in the european union is a significant factor in increasing europe's competitiveness on the world market. we need to give ambitious, innovative, creative people the opportunity to grow. the bureaucracy in the member states has made it difficult for able people to come and stay in the european union. their talents must be put to good use to sustain growth and innovation in the european market. it should be noted that young europeans also benefit from the arrival of people from abroad. this kind of activity, this kind of cooperation with people from other parts of the world, shapes their views and their way of thinking. their minds become more open to the world. i am fully convinced that the decisions taken by the european union at this time will contribute to improving the situation of all active, capable people from third countries who are willing to develop their skills in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal of the ep and the council on the conditions for the entry and residence of citizens for the purpose of carrying out scientific research and study in the european union. it should be stressed that this legal solution will only apply to persons who will be legally residing in the member states of the union. it will enable skills and knowledge to be acquired through training in europe and will encourage 'brain drain'. it should benefit the countries of origin of these people as well as the countries that will receive them. the legal movement of trainees and researchers should contribute to the development of human capital in europe. however, it is also worth considering the risk of abuse of the law and attempts to take illegal work on the basis of it. therefore, the rules for the residence of researchers and trainees must be clear and the dates of their stay clearly defined, so that the desired exchange of young people is an organised process.
in writing. ‒ the eu's regional policy aims to promote job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development. these activities are carried out in order to achieve the overarching objective of this policy, which is greater territorial cohesion. cohesion policy is implemented through three main funds: the european regional development fund (erdf), the cohesion fund and the european social fund (esf), which are part of the european structural and investment funds. with a budget of €351.8 billion, almost one third of the eu's overall budget for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, these funds are the eu's main investment tool. i have no objections to this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy of the european union is undoubtedly one of the most important instruments which bring ordinary citizens and the eu much closer to each other. therefore, constant work on the improvement of this policy is not only crucial but also necessary to keep eu cohesion policy harmonised with other eu policies as well as providing an appropriate, sustainable improvement in the flexibility of mechanisms to better react to local needs and more effectively coordinate the use of eu programmes for citizens.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, the honourable member! you are encouraging us to think about the future of children brought to europe. i would like us to think about the present, what is actually happening right now, what do we know about the 10,000 children who are missing in europe. we don't know what happened to them. this is the reality of immigration policy, this is what it's like to look at this illegal industry of people being smuggled, and we don't know if they've actually been used to smuggle others, if they're still alive, if they're not victims of crime.
mr. chairman, please! solidarity is not about blaming others for your own political irresponsibility. in fact, a huge part of the responsibility for the current immigration crisis lies with the european commission, the authors of these irresponsible calls, led by president juncker, who promised to open the way to legalise illegal immigration. of course, this also includes the failure to implement the european council decision of april last year, which called for a vigorous fight against the illegal immigration industry. we are now seeing attempts to blame the consequences of these policies on those countries which have the courage to oppose them. no, gentlemen, you should be the ones to take political responsibility for this policy. the foundation of democracy is political accountability. it is the authors of this policy, led by president juncker, who should go.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you're talking about a just solution. do you think that if the buses charge children less for their tickets, maybe the punishment for the refugee children would be lower?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i appreciate your rational approach, and we had a common position on sweden's proposal. i want to ask you, are you not afraid that relocation applied in terms of centralization and bureaucracy will lead to refugees, immigrants against their will, finding themselves in countries that do not provide sufficient economic protection, and wanting to leave those countries? is it not a threat, also from the point of view of international law, to put people where they do not want to be?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you if you think it's strange that here on the left side of the room everyone is saying that we need to keep the borders open, that no walls will help, and no one is saying that we need to remove the bait for these immigrants, namely social benefits. the only way to save the schengen area is to abolish socialism, to abolish the benefits that attract these people to us. do you agree with me?
mr. chairman, please! the schengen area is not only the foundation of the great idea of the european union, the proof of a true community, but also a key element of the eu's economy. for these reasons, we should guard its integrity. on the other hand, we must be able to respond to crises, such as the migration crisis and the terrorist threat in europe. for these reasons, it seems that it is acceptable, but only in certain situations and only for a certain period of time, to suspend the schengen area and only in certain places. at the same time, it should be remembered that such solutions do not eliminate the risks i mentioned and provide only limited protection. the europeans, on the other hand, are waiting for effective and definitive solutions, and the limitations of the schengen area are not one of them. the same applies to penalties imposed on states, even if they violate the principle of solidarity. i hope that this year we will free the schengen area from restrictions and thus find solutions to restore freedom and freedom of movement within the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu is part of the package of four new laws prepared recently by the european commission. the purpose of this legislative offensive is to radically reduce the scope for aggressive tax planning, tax evasion and tax avoidance and create a level playing field for all businesses in the eu. i congratulate the commission for this initiative. the purpose of the present proposal is to further strengthen and improve administrative cooperation between tax authorities in member states and to increase transparency of tax policies across the eu. the directive proposal provides for the mandatory automatic exchange between national tax authorities of information regarding country—by—country reports filed in each member state by multinational enterprises involved in cross-border business activities. the obligation of filing country—by—country reports extends to all multinationals with a combined turnover of more than eur 750 million. the directive proposal is in line with accepted international standards and specifically with the oecd report on the action plan on base erosion and profit shifting – the so-called beps report. the oecd package was also endorsed by the g20 leaders. it is therefore essential for the good functioning of the internal market that member states transpose political commitments until beps enters their national legal systems. we broadly support the commission proposal. we think it is timely, proportionate and goes in the right direction. we propose however two amendments. first, we want to involve the commission to become part of the automatic mandatory exchange of information between member states and this is for two reasons. firstly, we want the commission to be able to control the process of exchange of information in order to ensure the compliance of multinational companies and of member states with the directive. secondly, there is a state aid dimension to tax exemptions granted by member states and the commission should have access to this information to make sure that no illegal state aid is involved. the second amendment we propose is to request the commission to report systematically on the results achieved under this directive and to present publicly the aggregate summary of country—by—country reports. there were also two other changes proposed by some meps. the first proposal was to lower the threshold required for filing country—by—country reports from eur 750 million down to eur 40 million. the other proposal was to make all country—by—country reports public. both these proposals were rejected in the vote in the econ committee because they would introduce double standards – one more demanding for eu companies and the other less demanding for non-eu companies. if accepted, these two proposals would clearly put eu companies at a competitive disadvantage vis—à—vis non-european companies. mr president, dear members of parliament, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in preparing our report and the parliamentary services for technical support. i call on this house to vote in favour of our report. citizens in our countries are waiting for a strong signal from this parliament that we are in favour of more transparency, fairness and efficiency in tax policies in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, the challenges of tax fraud have increased significantly. the automatic exchange of information is intended to be an important tool in the fight against this phenomenon. however, it is very important that smes are not affected by these solutions. remember that they account for almost 70% of jobs in the european union. the functioning of multinational groups can lead to distortions of competition in national markets, which is why the solutions proposed by the european commission are so important. it is crucial that tax rules do not impede economic growth. the draft proposes to introduce specific arrangements for the automatic exchange of tax information, to increase the involvement of the european commission, the exchange of information process and to ensure greater transparency. however, this should not affect the principle of confidentiality.
mr. chairman, please! the obligation to report on financial and tax matters by country of operation of large companies can contribute to a partial levelling of the playing field for smes, and as we have heard many times here, smes have on average a 30% higher tax burden than corporations. the amendment of the current directive is therefore also important in this respect. however, such a system will not be fully effective unless this information is made public and this seems to me to be much more important than the dangerous extension of the european commission's powers and as long as we continue to tolerate tax havens like luxembourg in the european union. i also believe that the revenue threshold of eur 75 million per year for companies subject to reporting obligations will leave a significant number of companies de facto outside the scope of the proposed control system.
madam president! the european commission estimates that corporate tax relief across the european union amounts to some eur 120 billion per year. this means that in many countries the cost of these cuts is simply greater than the revenue from this tax. this is the case in my country, poland, where the revenue from corporate income tax is about pln 30 billion, and the cost of these cuts, according to the european commission's calculations, is as much as pln 46 billion. so we welcome this initiative of the european commission on automatic exchange of information, but it seems that the adoption of this solution should only concern companies with a turnover of more than 750 million euros. this amount should be absolutely reduced so that the rules that the commission proposes will cover a wider range of companies than before.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you all once again for your comments and the collective impetus this parliament gives to our joint action for fairer and more transparent taxation. i am convinced once again that our two institutions - despite the differences in sensibilities that may arise here and there - are on almost exactly the same page, simply because we have the same objective - more transparent, more efficient and, at the same time, fairer taxation. i also welcome the level of ambition that some of you have mentioned and that mr rosati's report has of course translated. in this respect, i would like to assure you that the decision to limit the application of this directive to multinational groups whose turnover exceeds the threshold of some 750 million euros per year is not - contrary to what i have heard - the result of any cowardice or weakness on the part of the commission, but simply of careful and sound thinking, which is also based on the oecd conclusions. many of you have told us that we should not build a new layer, a new standard, or make things more complicated. not all multinationals are affected by this threshold, but it should be noted that this threshold is actually very effective, since it covers 90% of the revenues of multinationals in europe. if it were lowered, it would actually impose a new administrative burden on companies which represent only 10% of the revenues of multinationals, but companies which are not themselves subject to this obligation, if the oecd country-by-country reporting rules are followed. so it would be very expensive, very burdensome and, in truth, totally ineffective. that is why, if we want to change this threshold - we can understand it - and understand even more about the income of multinationals, it is at the oecd level that we must act to try to lower, within the collective framework of the beps project, this threshold which is still - i believe it - quite remarkably effective. as regards the role of the commission, i have heard those who wish it to be stronger, and i would like to thank them for that, even though they are members like mr lucke who are usually more critical of this commission. after all, if they ever decide to show their appreciation, i can't thank them enough. but there are the very simple legal and legal limits that i indicated in my introduction. i would like to assure you once again that we will be extremely vigilant, attentive and strict in ensuring that this directive is properly applied within the framework of, of course, our own powers. i should also like to say that i am getting tired of the old system of targeting the president of the commission in the name of his nationality, or the president of the council, the current president of the eurogroup, in the name of his nationality. it so happens that the president of the commission is a luxembourg national, that the previous presidency of the council of the european union was a luxembourg national, that the president of the eurogroup is a dutch national and that the current presidency of the council is a dutch national. you will judge the result, and i would like to say that the work with the luxembourg presidency was quite remarkable, since it enabled us to conclude the directive on the automatic exchange of information on tax returns in seven months. the work of the dutch presidency is equally remarkable. i hope to come back to you in june with a positive conclusion on the package of measures to combat tax evasion. i note the very remarkable support of jeroen dijsselbloem. i can assure you - and i say this especially to those who would consider that i have done this voluntarily - that i have the full support of president juncker. it has never happened to me and i know it will never happen to me to be held back in what is not zeal, but simply a commitment. today i really believe that the commission and parliament are taking another step - a new step - in the right direction. i have heard your remarks, i think they are useful, and we will take them into account. i know as well as you that this fight is not over, and it will never be over, because every time, technology, legal, accounting and financial tricks will try to find ways around it or deviations, and that is humanity not the newspaper humanity as it is. so there's five years of work for me, five years of work for you and five years of work for my successor, my successor, your successor. we are engaged in a rather unusual step, which we must welcome. we must pursue it together and take decisive steps towards the revolution in transparency that i wish to see. nothing is ever perfect, we always want to know more and go further. it is true that we are entitled to ask the member states to do their job, but at the same time we should not pretend that we do not need them. we know what our rules are, what the commission proposes, that parliament is a co-legislator and also that without the member states we cannot do anything. so we have to collectively push them in the right direction, but at the same time also be able to greet them when they take a good step forward, which i assure you is happening. it's not always spontaneous, it's not always easy, they're also listening to the opinion. i do not think that the commission has any right to interfere in the procedure. i have spoken of tax harmonization, i want it, and as a politician i am in favour of it. i also know how complicated it is, simply because the unanimity rule is blocking. i note, however, that when it comes to texts on transparency - because there have been luxleaks, the panama papers, because there is the european parliament, a voluntary commission - it goes much better and much faster. it is customary to say that it takes about five to seven years for a directive on tax legislation to reach the end of its life cycle. on the tax returns, it took seven months, on the anti-tax avoidance package, i'm hoping five months will be enough. so where it took seven years or five years, on these issues, it takes five months, which is how fast and hard we work, and we will continue to work fast and hard together. i invite you all to contribute, as you obviously do, to ensuring that this debate is always at the forefront of the political agenda of our union, drawing on this great citizen demand which is addressed to us. europe is being criticized, too much. we have here an opportunity to show that europe is useful, strong and good, and to show, quite simply, what we want to do with our europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, i address my thanks to all the speakers for this interesting debate. i am very happy to see this overwhelming unity in which we all share concern about the growing scale of tax evasion and tax avoidance across the globe. this is a very worrying phenomenon as it undermines national budgets, as it puts small and medium-sized enterprises in a disadvantaged position and of course undermines the fairness of the taxation systems in all our countries. i would like therefore to express my satisfaction that we all agree that this issue has to be tackled and that we all agree that taxes should be paid where the value is created. on several contentious points let me make a quick comment. on the threshold, i think commission muscovici has explained what is the rationale behind adopting this relatively high threshold. if we went for a lower threshold that would certainly cost us much more, with marginal revenues from that move diminishing, so that i think we have to be ambitious, but not perhaps ambitious to the point as to undermine the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax system. if we manage to collect more than 90% of taxes within this system with a threshold of 750, i think we should start with this; but of course, if we are able to start negotiations at the oecd level in order to lower this threshold, i would be all in favour of that. and the same holds true for the publicity, for the transparency. i am also in favour of that, but simply, my point is that we would not like to adopt unilateral obligations because they would certainly undermine the competitive position of our eu companies. if we can find a system that would not undermine the competitiveness of the european union, i again would be very much in favour of more publicity and more transparency. one last point is on the role of the council. i have to say that i regret that the council has taken its decision before parliament actually prepared its opinion. this is against the rules. although the decision is up to the council, the council should take a decision at the end of the whole procedure after the parliament has expressed its opinion. i think in future we will not have this kind of unfortunate practice. finally, i would like to express my thanks to commissioner moscovici for excellent cooperation and to all the shadow rapporteurs and to all the speakers during this debate.
madam president! first of all, i would like to thank my colleague thomas handel for raising such an important issue as the growing social and economic inequalities, especially in some countries. they are not just a national problem they can have very negative effects on economic growth and competitiveness throughout the european union. i would like to call on the european commission in particular to include in the 2017 work programme the appropriate instruments to improve the socio-economic situation in europe. a range of policies should be developed to reduce inequalities. so today i want to focus on three things that i think are key. the family is very often the root of growing social and economic inequalities. poverty, unemployment, lack of proper education are passed on from generation to generation. our actions should therefore focus on supporting families in a responsible and sustainable way. the key is professional activation, the creation of flexible forms of employment combined with adequate social protection, as well as adequate quality childcare. simple transfers of money will not bring the expected results, on the contrary, they may, for example, keep women out of the labour market for a long time. another very important issue is early childhood education based on innovative teaching methods adapted to today's modern realities. the priority should be to create a level playing field right from the start. we can do this by developing pre-school and early childhood care, and by giving all children, regardless of their social status, the opportunity to access education at the earliest possible age. the last thing i want to talk about is social investment. i believe that europe needs a new, more innovative and bold way of thinking today. we need to believe more in people and instead of just financial support, which is often addictive, offer support that helps them develop and build their independence.
member of the commission. – madam president, of course the crisis has led to unprecedented divergences among member states, with higher unemployment and increasing inequality having disrupted social cohesion in many of them. unbalanced growth in some countries before the crisis often went hand-in-hand with lower productivity, a decline in competitiveness and too little investment in human capital. while there are some signs that divergences between member states are starting to decline, this remains an issue of concern for us. inequality hampers growth and undermines political and social stability and progress, and it undermines one of the european union’s raisons d’être, namely fostering economic convergence and improving the life of all european citizens. of course i agree with you when you mention all the questions about income policies and about how to address inequalities. but, as you know, speaking about the income policies, speaking about the minimum income for example, the eu has no competence to adopt legislative measures setting requirements on minimum income at eu level. as minimum income schemes aim to combat poverty and social exclusion, they fall within the remit of article 153 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union: the legal basis for the adoption of measures in the field is therefore article 153.2 and it lies in the hands of the member states. nevertheless, the commission has been providing policy guidance to the member states to help them to develop adequate levels of minimum income, notably through the 2008 commission communication on active inclusion, the 2013 social investment package and various country specific recommendations within the european semester. the commission has also been funding the establishment of the european minimum income network and is elaborating a methodology to develop across nationally comparable reference budgets in member states. this will serve as means of helping both member states, to design efficient and adequate income support, and the commission, to monitor the adequacy of income support at union level. of course we must strive for upward convergence in employment and social policies. that means ensuring that no-one is left behind: that people’s quality of life is improved as the european economies strengthen. since its first day in office, a key goal of this commission has been to create a europe worthy of a social triple-a rating. this requires fair and balanced growth leading to the creation of decent quality jobs, as well as equal chances for success and the protection of all throughout their life cycle. we have already put fairness at the core of our agenda. the commission work programme 2016 made it clear that tackling inequalities in the union requires a focus on two mutual reinforcing priorities: more job-rich growth and enhanced social convergence. this is not only our mission as a european commission. it is a joint responsibility to achieve results in addressing inequalities. we need to activate the support of member states, the social partners, and all the stakeholders. it is important that our citizens see that europe is working for them. this must be our common goal – that europe creates quality jobs and promotes fairness, ultimately generating wealth and offering decent opportunities to all.
in writing. persistent inequalities are a real problem and the european union should therefore take action in both its social and economic policies to help redress them. however, it should be borne in mind that much depends on the member states and that any action must respect the principle of subsidiarity. the union does not have the competence (and should not have) to introduce a uniform income at european level or a minimum wage. each country's economy is unique and operates under free market conditions. at eu level, we should create the right framework and conditions for european citizens to benefit from economic growth and opportunities on an equal footing. i therefore welcomed the commission's initiative on the european pillar of social rights. i think that the initial key priorities in this area have been well presented: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and adequate social protection. i hope that the commission will present a concrete and ambitious proposal as planned in early 2017.
mr. chairman, please! in the european union, there are environments which, in the name of the noble goals of protecting health and life, continue to multiply excessive regulations that are disproportionate to the risks and needs. however, the consequences of forced solutions rarely protect the values that are being raised, and they generate enormous financial costs for citizens and political costs for the community. they are undermining the credibility of the eu institutions, including the european parliament, and are eroding the respect of an increasing number of europeans for us. the construction of a pyramidal bureaucracy, the multiplication of the gigantic costs of doing business and the increase in the fear of draconian penalties are discouraging more and more citizens from doing business, especially on a small scale, but worse still, also to the european union itself. unfortunately, this is also the case with the proposals we are debating today. that's why they deserve our negative opinion.
in writing. mandatory indication of the country or place of origin of certain foods information on the country or place of origin of meat and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products is an elementary consumer right. the majority of the citizens of my country, poland, do not want food of unknown origin on their tables, and i therefore want to express my full support for this resolution and i hope that in future this obligation will also extend to other foodstuffs. in the case of imports of foodstuffs from outside europe, produced according to standards that differ significantly from those applied in the european union, we have a duty not only to ensure transparency in the food chain but also to rebuild the trust of consumers who have the right to choose products on their table with an awareness of the product. the introduction of a permanent requirement to indicate the country or place of origin of meat and milk and their products, and its extension to single-ingredient or single-ingredient food products, is of particular importance for people with food allergies or intolerances, for whom their consumption causes serious and often incurable diseases.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for this very useful debate. hydropower is a key renewable energy source and the hydroelectric sector is an important area within the european union. but the diversity of the national regulatory regimes in this area has to be acknowledged. as stressed, it is important that national regimes on hydro concessions fully respect applicable eu law. the commission will continue to oversee that eu rules are observed. this is in line with the aims of the energy union to ensure, inter alia, an integrated energy market where energy security is guaranteed. the commission is currently looking into hydroelectric authorisations and concessions in a number of member states. it has already launched infringement procedures and it may open more if it appears that there has been an infringement of eu law, including the concessions directive, the services directive and competition laws. some have mentioned that in the commission you see a lack of cooperation. no, there is good cooperation between dgs and cooperation between dg grow, the dg for energy and the dg for competition. there is also no unequal treatment of member states and the commission is already now looking at several national hydroelectric regulatory regimes and will act where necessary to ensure compliance with applicable european union rules.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all let me apologise for my late arrival. we spent one hour in front of the gates of strasbourg due to the unexpected heavy traffic so i want to apologise. i would like to thank parliament and ms arena for this report. it shows that we have a good basis in eu legislation, but also room for further improvement if we want more women to enter and/or stay in the labour market. working parents and care-givers need better-designed arrangements to reconcile their work and their private lives, and the commission is committed to just that: a ‘new start’ for working parents and carers. as your report shows, working families still face significant challenges. we are checking the current eu legal and policy framework against today’s labour market. our new start will allow workers with children or dependent relatives to better balance caring and professional responsibilities. we want to enable working parents and carers – in reality these are mostly women, as we heard before – to remain in employment and make progress in their careers. therefore, labour market participation of all parents and carers can only be improved if we allow for a better sharing of caring responsibilities between women and men. our new initiative will of course be based on an analysis of the current situation in all member states, including also the implementation of the parental leave directive. your report is therefore particularly timely. the commission services are currently carrying out conformity assessments so as to ensure the whole and complete application of the parental leave directive. we are in intensive dialogue with member states where there are any doubts. the commission is also engaging more broadly with stakeholders: both the social partners and the general public have been consulted, in february 2016, and the commission is currently finalising the second-stage consultation of the social partners. subject to the results of this second-stage consultation, we intend to set out our new start as a broad package that may include legislative and other measures, while fully respecting the subsidiarity and proportionality principles. the package could contain measures on different leave arrangements, flexible working, childcare and long-term care. a reflection on tax benefit systems free from disincentives to work for both parents is also worth considering.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when we talk about parental leave, we must first of all remember that the most important subject of this discussion is the child and it is the child who should be the biggest beneficiary of our debate today. in the discussion of parental leave, much attention is paid to the division of parental leave between men and women. the truth is that currently only three percent of men who are fathers choose to take advantage of this opportunity. the non-transferable month of leave guaranteed by the directive is thus not used, and both father, child and mother are deprived of it. but as a father myself, i believe that more fathers benefit the whole family by strengthening the father-child bond and by supporting women in their careers. however, i believe that the way to increase the participation of fathers in family life is not by extending the duration of non-transferable parental leave, as the statistics mentioned above confirm, but by educational measures aimed at presenting to families the benefits of such a solution. i also believe that we cannot intervene in the family life of our citizens by force, but should only try to suggest the best solutions that allow some flexibility and allow parents to choose the most appropriate model of childcare taking into account their current family and professional situation. i therefore believe that the current solution, which sets only minimum requirements for parental leave, is justified, while leaving the member states the autonomy to choose the solutions best adapted to the characteristics of each society. however, i would encourage the implementation of solutions that are as family-friendly as possible and that are guided by the best interests of the child.
mr. chairman, please! we fully accept the well-being of the child, the family, motherhood and parenting in the traditional sense, based on authority and values rooted in widely respected cultural patterns. we ensure the well-being of the child when he is as close as possible to the warmth of the mother and father's heart from the first days of life, for as long as possible. in this context, we therefore strengthen and support maternity and parental leave, taking into account the facilities for parents of children with disabilities or long-term illnesses. we also want to continually improve the balance between work, family and private life, but we will not support other forms of leave imposed on member states.
mr. chairman, please! the legal arrangements for parental leave at eu level are in many places out of step with current social and labour market realities. there has been a significant change in the perception of the role of men in childrearing, with the consequence that paternity leave is now in force in almost all member states. their length and level of use is still low. unfortunately, fathers take only a marginal share of the parental leave available to both parents. only less than 3% of them do, which shows the scale of the problem. however, it seems that the most important challenges we face are related to changes in the labour market. in many member states, workers employed under so-called 'custom contracts' are not entitled to parental leave. given the popularity of these contracts, many europeans are unable to exercise their right to custody of a young child, which certainly affects their procreation decisions. europe is already facing a demographic crisis, and the labour market situation described will only worsen it. we should therefore consider ways of reconciling flexible forms of employment and parental leave rights. it is necessary to take into account the specificities of each member state and to involve the social partners actively in this process. take poland, where the pro-family measures introduced by the previous ruling coalition resulted in annual maternity leave. like the uk, poland is in the elite group of european countries providing the longest maternity leave, and the widespread promotion of paternity leave is increasingly effective. i would like to congratulate rapporteur maria arena and the whole team on a good report.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this discussion. i wanted to remind you briefly why we are withdrawing the maternity leave directive. in fact it brought positive results and developments in only certain member states. we promised, together with the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), that the commission would come forward with a more ambitious and wider package or approach to solve several important problems and to achieve several important goals. you spoke about opening the choice for women to go to work. we have a high percentage of women educated at university in europe and this is a waste of talents and previous investments when they cannot work due to the lack of good conditions. this is good for the economy and for the whole of society. we need to look at the demographic line which is declining. this is a worrying phenomenon. i think it was mr hetman who said that we need to do it in the interest of children, but first they have to be born. we need to open the conditions for this. we need to decrease the economic dependence of women on men because, if i look at it from a wider perspective, according to our studies the dependence of women on men in economic terms increases the phenomenon of domestic violence. so everything is connected with everything. working on this package – and it is also very clearly shown in the interim results of our consultations – we need to be very careful about subsidiarity and proportionality, as was said here several times, because there are many differences in the positions of the member states. there are traditions and deeply rooted habits of families. there are very different approaches from the side of employees and employers. so it will not be an easy task to create a good package of legislative and non-legislative measures. my opinion on this is that it is our duty to create the conditions and to open the space for free choice. it is the right of individuals and families to use this open space, i think this is the proper way to look at it and this will also help us to avoid the risk of social engineering or some naive legislative proposals which will not bring the desired results. a question was asked here about where the line between the femm and labour market approaches comes. in the commission we have resolved this issue: it is mainly my agenda, but we work in very close cooperation with marianne thyssen and the experts from the labour markets here because this package will also contain very important proposals which will reflect the modern trends in the labour market. i am looking forward to cooperating on this with you, especially in the second half of this year when we will do the second round of consultations.
in writing. the employment rate for women in the eu is currently only 63.5%. consequently, further action is needed to support women's employment and retention in the labour market. despite efforts to date, the gender imbalance in the use of parental leave remains significant. eurostat data show that the number of people taking parental leave in 2010 was 3 518 600, of which only 2.7% were men. the aim of this report was to assess the parental leave provisions in the various member states. the analysis did not reveal any weaknesses in the implementation of parental leave in the eu countries, but it did note some discrepancies in the conditions for parental leave, especially in terms of combining it with the other two types of leave - maternity and paternity. the use of parental leave by fathers was also found to be very low, mainly due to the fact that it is low paid and transferable in most member states. in this context, a further detailed review of legislation and analysis of european legal acts on all types of parental leave should be carried out with a view to streamlining them in terms of duration, remuneration and scope.
madam president! unlike my colleagues, i was in crimea and talked to several crimean tatar organizations and people on the streets. well, the tatars initially supported the annexation of crimea to russia, persuaded by tatars from tatarstan, where they were doing quite well; now they are deeply disappointed because they hoped they would get better, but they did not get better, on the contrary. crimea is ruled by the same people who ruled it before, only now they call themselves russians, and before that they called themselves ukrainians, and they take advantage of the fact that it's further to moscow for justice than to kiev. the mejlis, on the other hand, does not enjoy the support of all crimean tatars, especially since it supported the terrorist attack, which was the blowing up of the power plant that supplied electricity to crimea and in winter crimea was deprived of electricity, and this was supported by the mejlis and therefore it was declared a terrorist organization. this is a very complicated matter, and i would ask that you approach it with great caution. thank you for your attention, and i also think that the european union should be destroyed.
madam president! crimea is the home, the homeland of the crimean tatars. they were subjected to the barbaric russian policy of ethnic cleansing: during the times of the tsar, during the times of stalin and now, especially after the annexation of crimea by the russian federation. ethnic cleansing continues, people are dying. the same is true of other minorities, but the scale of the barbarism against the crimean tatars is unprecedented. their leader mustafa dzhemilev has called for increased, tougher sanctions against russia over its aggression in ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the gambia - one of the 15 poorest countries in the world - is heavily dependent on international aid, including from the eu. as a result of the lack of respect for human rights, the eu has drastically reduced the amount of aid, which means that a quarter of the population is at risk of starvation. the gambian presidential election scheduled for december this year will be the fifth consecutive contested by the incumbent president jammeh, who came to power 22 years ago in a military coup. the authorities are already intimidating the opposition and its potential voters by arresting and torturing journalists, human rights defenders and political opponents, as exemplified by the tragic events of a peaceful demonstration in serekunda and the mysterious death of solo sandeng, the leader of the main opposition party. the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly shall not be restricted. gambia needs immediate electoral reform, including the establishment of an independent electoral commission, and equal access to public media.
madam president! i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters because it introduces a very important instrument to counter the unfair practices of multinational corporations which, through aggressive tax planning, seek to minimise the taxes paid. the main cost of such activity is not only lower revenues to the member states' budgets but also the weakening of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. mandatory exchange of information on reports between countries will increase the transparency of the operation of multinational companies and thus help eliminate tax fraud. i agree with the rapporteur that the european commission has very modestly outlined its role in the proposed amendment. certain amendments to the legislative proposal under discussion are therefore necessary, in particular those concerning the involvement of the commission in the exchange of information process so that it has access to the tax reports transmitted. this would allow it not only to safeguard the interest of the union as a whole but also to prepare annual reports to the parliament and the council presenting the main conclusions of the activities observed.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposes to amend the administrative cooperation directive by introducing specific requirements for the automatic exchange of information on country reports. these amendments concern, inter alia, the scope of information to be provided by multinational enterprises in respect of each tax jurisdiction, the threshold from which reporting obligations arise, the rules for the automatic exchange of information between national tax authorities, and other practical issues. such consultations shall not require the provision of information to the public. the project aims to involve the european commission more in the process of exchanging information on country reports, but it was noted that the european commission must respect confidentiality rules in this respect. i agree with the provisions and amendments to the previous directive and therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ today's vote reflects the need to increase transparency in tax information to combat cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. the automatic exchange of information is an important tool in this regard as a future european and international standard for transparency and exchange of information in tax matters. the proposal also sets out the threshold for reporting by country by multinational enterprises, the scope of information exchanged, the timetable for implementation and the frequency of reporting. once the new rules come into force, multinational groups of companies established or operating in the eu with revenues of at least eur 750 000 000 will be required to submit such reports. the european commission should participate in the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and, like the national tax authorities, should have access to the reports, subject to the principles of confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ the draft proposes to amend the administrative cooperation directive by introducing specific requirements for the automatic exchange of information on country reports. these changes concern, inter alia, the scope of information to be provided by multinational enterprises in respect of each tax jurisdiction (profit before tax, tax due and paid, number of employees, etc.), the threshold at which reporting is required (consolidated group revenues totalling at least 750 000 000), the rules for the automatic exchange of information between national tax authorities upon receipt of a multinational enterprise's country-by-country report, and other practical issues. such consultations shall not require the provision of information to the public. the proposed amendments aim to involve the european commission more in the process of exchanging information on country reports, but it was noted that the european commission must respect confidentiality rules in doing so. the compromise reached is balanced against previous versions of the administrative cooperation directive. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, there have been a number of cases of incorrect labelling of fish and fishery products sold in supermarkets, cafeterias and restaurants across the union. when we are dealing with mislabelling, high-quality species are deliberately replaced by lower-quality species, misnamed and sold to the consumer at the price he would pay for high-quality species. it is unfair to fishermen and consumers. member states were therefore invited to step up national controls to detect and prevent mislabelling. it was also found that the incorrect labelling constitutes an infringement of the rules of the common fisheries policy. this was a call for a robust and robust traceability system from the landing stage to consumption. on the labelling front, the draft resolution supports the idea of the commission exploring the possibility of introducing an eco-label scheme for fishery and aquaculture products within the framework of the common organisation of the markets, and states that a sound eu labelling policy in the fisheries sector is a key factor in stimulating the economic development of coastal communities. i agree with the above and fully support it, which is why i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 11 december 2016, section 15 (a) (ii) of the protocol on the accession of china to the wto will expire. the exact legal effect of this phenomenon remains unclear and is the subject of considerable debate among industry experts. both the commission and the legal services parliament envisage changes in the functioning of european anti-dumping law, in particular in the methodology used to determine the so-called normal value, which is ancillary to anti-dumping investigations. i believe that instead of identifying the legal changes that may result from the expiry of chapter 15 (a) (ii), it is worth supporting the four basic principles that should accompany any commission decision on this matter. 1. the need to ensure that the eu's obligations under its wto commitments are fully consistent with eu law; 2. the need to take into account not only the consequences of the expiry of the abovementioned chapter but also those provisions that will remain after 11 december 2016; 3. the need to ensure that the eu remains a decisive player in solving problems and taking important decisions; 4. any legislative proposal should be based on a thorough assessment and recognition not only of the legal aspects of any decision but also of the medium and long-term economic, social, industrial and strategic implications. in view of the above, i voted yes.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the current recognition of china as a market economy would be associated with a sharp decline in the competitiveness of european industry. china is not yet a fully market economy, as the state subsidises some of its private companies, applying rules that are difficult to reconcile with free market rules and deliberately undercutting export prices. the high level of chinese production capacity thus obtained results in cheap exports of industrial products to the eu countries. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are in line with the principles set out in the basic regulation. europe will need time to adjust its economy to the strong competition from china. i believe that china will continue to be a great partner for the eu and i am in favour of the introduction of a draft new but fair anti-dumping regulation as soon as possible. the union should make clear to its chinese partner that the recognition of its economy as a market economy is a process and not a one-off and simultaneous act.
in writing. ‒ in september 2015, the un general assembly adopted the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals contained therein. the objectives and tasks shall be geared to economic growth, social development and environmental protection. the agenda, objectives and tasks are universal, covering both developing and developed countries and all people. the focus is on issues such as improving people's quality of life, social protection and the environment in which they live. the joint draft resolution focuses on the issue of the eu's common position on the high level political forum on sustainable development (hlpf). i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union, together with its member states, is the largest donor of development aid and it was the eu that led the process leading to the adoption of the 2030 agenda. this is a great success, largely the result of coherent and coordinated action by all the actors involved. the adoption of the 2030 agenda is also a promise by world leaders to end extreme poverty, achieve sustainable development and ensure dignity and justice for all. before the high-level political forum on sustainable development, the eu external affairs council should develop a common and coherent eu position on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the parliament's report rightly expressed concern at the european commission's failure to publish a communication on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda before the forum. what is needed now is to turn words into action and implement the 2030 agenda. as a world leader in development, the union has the primary responsibility for promoting the implementation of the 17 sdgs, both internally and externally. therefore, it is necessary for the eu's credibility in the international community that the common position of the eu and its member states be presented as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2030 agenda because i believe that only through the use of regular review mechanisms can we achieve the sustainable development goals. i hope that the commission will present a strategy in this area soon, covering all the relevant internal and external aspects. it should include a transparent framework for monitoring and evaluating progress towards those objectives. the 2030 agenda, agreed last autumn, is an ambitious project to eradicate poverty altogether by integrating economic, social and environmental sustainability. the eu has repeatedly stressed the integrated nature of these three aspects during the negotiations and has committed itself to implementing them both within the community and in external relations. the traditional model of development cooperation is becoming increasingly irrelevant and should be limited to countries affected by conflict and crises. the need for more flexible and innovative instruments, based on measurable and verifiable development outcomes, is increasing. the new objectives are based on a partnership model between developed and developing countries, taking into account their different capabilities and needs. this is why cooperation at all levels is so important - from governments through the private sector to regional and citizens' initiatives.
in writing. ‒ the commission was required to present to parliament and the council several feasibility studies on the extension of the obligation to indicate the origin of certain categories of food: these reports were published in june 2015 (com ((2015) 0204) and com ((2015) 0205). they do not contain any legislative proposal, as the commission considers that this would have to increase the cost to industry and consumers are not willing to bear the additional costs. i personally support the principle of mandatory country of origin labelling of food where it is practical and consistent with consumer needs. the commission's analysis is useful, but the conclusion does not address the important aspects, i.e. the benefits of better consumer information. i am convinced that in the case of feasibility studies for milk and milk products, the cost estimate for the industry is exaggerated, as all these products are in one category. if the scope were limited to lightly processed products, the costs would be much lower. many manufacturers and retailers in the eu already provide such information on their own initiative, reflecting the actual needs of consumers and low costs. mandatory indication of the country of origin of lightly processed products would be an important step towards restoring consumer confidence following the horse meat scandal and would allow consumers to make more informed choices. in spite of the above, i consider this draft to be favourable and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the principle of mandatory country of origin labelling of food, if practical and consistent with consumer needs, is to be welcomed. the commission's analysis is useful, but the conclusion does not address the important aspects, i.e. the benefits of better consumer information. the feasibility studies for milk and milk products overestimate the costs for the industry, as they assess all these products in one category. if the scope were limited to lightly processed products, the costs would be much lower. many manufacturers and traders in the eu already provide such information on their own initiative, reflecting the existing need among consumers and low costs. the mandatory labelling already exists for many products, such as meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables, fish and many others. the commission should propose a mandatory indication limited to milk and lightly processed dairy products such as cheese and cream, as well as lightly processed meat, if there is evidence of consumer interest in such information. however, any proposal must minimise costs for producers and consumers. the commission would welcome an additional assessment of how to implement such a proposal in a cost-effective and proportionate manner. mandatory indication of the country of origin of these lightly processed products would be an important step forward in restoring consumer confidence and allowing them to make more informed choices. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the s&d implementation report aims to assess the implementation of eu parental leave legislation by member states. the author has tried to present the current situation in all member states. it is clear that the s&d group has used this report to set out its ambitious policy priorities for legislation on maternity and paternity leave at eu level. many amendments were introduced to make the text more factual. these amendments covered issues such as subsidiarity, competences, better regulation and the eu's role as an intermediary in exchanges between member states. references were made to overly rigorous implementation, to the fact that social benefits are a competence of the member states, and to the call on the commission to take account of non-legislative initiatives and the importance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. unfortunately, the final text contains two obvious lines that are insurmountable for the ecr group and for me, including the call for an eu directive on minimum paternity leave and an ambitious eu proposal on maternity leave. with that in mind, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the s&d implementation report aims to assess the implementation of eu parental leave legislation by member states. while the rapporteur has tried to present the current state of affairs in all member states, it is clear that the s&d group has used this report to present its ambitious policy priorities with regard to legislation on maternity and paternity leave at eu level. the co-rapporteur of the ecr submitted a number of amendments to blur some of the proposals of the rapporteurs and to base the text more on the facts. these amendments covered issues such as subsidiarity, competences, better regulation and the eu's role in mediating exchanges between member states. the co-rapporteur of the ecr worked constructively to influence the content of the final compromise and, with the support of the epp and alde groups, a number of amendments to the ecr were adopted, including a reference to overly rigorous implementation, a remark that social benefits are a competence of the member states and a request to the commission to take account of non-legislative initiatives and the importance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. unfortunately, the final text contains two obviously insurmountable limits, including a call for an eu directive on minimum paternity leave and an ambitious eu proposal on maternity leave. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union has previously applied the parental leave directive, but it has not been equally respected in all eu member states. this is important because it creates a sense of discrimination against women in terms of their professional activity. this will contribute to increasing gender diversity in enterprises, which is sometimes a significant problem in the corporate environment. i think that fathers should also be able to take more paternity leave than they have been able to do so far. the focus should be on gradually changing the prevailing perceptions of the economic role of men and the social role of women. measures should also be taken to ensure a work-life balance for all workers. moreover, it will certainly have a positive impact on the economic situation of the labour market itself. i hope that this kind of solution will also stop discrimination against women in terms of pay. the system must take into account all the factors that cause the economic system to fail, and access to parental leave is certainly one of them.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an overall assessment of the measures taken to assess the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings in the framework of the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. as the majority of trafficking victims in the eu are women of all ages, the report focuses on identifying their origins and on measures to help and protect them. it also covers aspects related to combating forced prostitution and combating trafficking in human beings from a gender perspective, and provides recommendations for the future on how to prevent modern slavery. the report made references to lgbti rights and access to abortion for trafficked women. i am aware of the importance of the subject under discussion, but i consider that its content is far from adequate and incomplete, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report provides an overall assessment of the measures taken to assess the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings in the framework of the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. as the majority of victims of trafficking in human beings in the eu are women and girls, this report focuses on identifying their origins and on helping and protecting them. it also covers aspects related to combating forced prostitution and preventing sex trafficking and provides recommendations for the future on how to prevent modern slavery. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a terrible violation of fundamental rights, as well as of human dignity and physical and psychological integrity. unfortunately, because of the continued high demand, this practice is flourishing, generating profits estimated at about $150 billion a year. for anti-trafficking legislation to be effective, it must be accompanied by a clear cultural shift from a culture of impunity to a culture of zero tolerance for trafficking in human beings. eu member states should therefore take the necessary measures to correctly implement directive 2011/36/eu in this respect as soon as possible. a coherent approach to the prosecution of trafficking in human beings is also needed, including through enhanced regional or international cooperation. the european parliament's report rightly called on member states to set up emergency numbers that victims of trafficking and exploitation could call to seek help. in addition, the commission's creation of a website dedicated to combating trafficking in human beings, containing a database of eu-funded projects in the union and beyond, is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. the ep report is another of parliament's many calls for coordinated action at all levels to effectively prevent trafficking in human beings. that's why i decided to support this document.
but first, perhaps a few words to my predecessor, who acts as if he does not know that a monopoly is not only against the interests of the market, but against the interests of the consumer. and we want a market with competition, real competition. we want a market without barriers and we want a european market where companies can scale up faster and better. and that will really give us sovereignty, not some hopeless monopolies that really resemble dictatorial systems. the document presented by the commission, by the commissioner, contains a lot of very good initiatives - initiatives that are expected by both businesses and consumers on the european market - and now is the time for parliament and the commission to work together even more closely and intensively to respond to the expectations that european citizens have of the development of our common market. i am also chairman of a working party which is working on this and i hope that we will be able to welcome you to the working party very soon. the great challenge for the market is this unfortunate geoblocking, which is extremely irritating to consumers and blocks the development of entrepreneurs. but here, we have to be very careful to identify areas where this geo-blocking is unwarranted. and certainly one of those areas is package delivery and all the barriers that come with it. the fact that a package costs more simply because it crosses a border is a complete absurdity and a denial of the common market. the commission is not yet proposing price regulation, but it would be very important for operators to realise that we have one market and not twenty-eight different markets. so we need new ideas, like, for example, to provide new operators with access to the postal infrastructure. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. this is exactly one of the areas where we have to work with the same success as we have with the roaming issue, which has finally succeeded. this long-awaited consumer solution is on the table, it's starting to work, it's going to be fully operational next year. we need innovative solutions, not thinking only in one country and in the traditional delivery of parcels in one country, and charging completely unnecessary prices for those parcels that cross borders. more collaboration and new ideas.
i'm absolutely convinced that we're talking about one of the most important, fundamental issues today. we live in the 21st century, in a modern society characterised by an enormous mobility: we are born elsewhere, we are educated elsewhere, we work elsewhere, we live elsewhere. the real world for this kind of society creates a lot of barriers. we have not been able to, we have not been able to remove them from the common market. we cannot make that mistake by creating a digital single market, and for two reasons: it is not only in the interests of businesses on the one hand and european consumers on the other - this is of course very important - but it is also in the interests of the whole of europe, of the whole of the community, because we are operating in a global market. if we cannot manage to remove barriers, to increase the freedom of enterprise, but also the free choice of consumers in this market of ours - although it is large - then of course we will lose the competition in this global, world market. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal very much, but i also warn against the temptation - perhaps not even today, but in the future - to over-regulate this market. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i totally agree. i'm not going to debate that with this attitude and this position. on the contrary, i'm not. if we want to develop the digital single market, we also need to support all those actors who will serve the development of this single market. of course, these societies, or even local communities, for some reasons - probably also historical and economic - have difficulty accessing the common market. but i'm saying, those are two different things. we should be very active and efficient on both the one plane and the other plane.
member of the commission. – madam president, my role is very complicated right now because i have got so many questions and i have only a couple of minutes to respond to those questions. but first, i would like to thank you for your strong support for the package we are proposing today. i am looking forward to having really fruitful cooperation with you. i am ready to come to all the parliamentary committees and all of the party groups of parliament to discuss these issues. regarding geo-blocking, we all know that this is a real headache for our businesses in the european union and also for our citizens. we know those fears about mystery shopping surveys but, once again, 2% out of all the people who tried to buy goods or services from another member state could not get access to those websites because their ip address was wrong, from the wrong country; 27% of those people who could get access could not register because once again they were from the wrong country; 32% of those people who were lucky enough to register were faced with delivery problems; and the 26% of the people who did not have any kind of delivery problems could not pay. we have the single euro payments area (sepa) in the european union, but 26% of people could not pay! all in all, just 36.6% out of all those people who tried to buy goods or services from another country were able to do so. this is not a single market. this is not at all the single market we have to have in the european union. we have to fix those problems. our proposal was to set an obligation to sell like at home, which does not mean that there will be an obligation on the deliverer. sellers have to treat those buyers coming online from other countries differently from local people and i cannot agree with vicky ford, who said that we will put some kind of additional obligations on our small companies. no way – they have to sell like at home. this means that the sellers’ law has to apply. if i want to buy a bottle of water, as a consumer, i will take those risks and i do not care if there is french writing on the label rather than estonian. it is my risk. if there are some defects in goods or devices, then i took this risk and i have to take the equipment back to the place where i bought it. so there will be no additional obligations and no additional risks for sellers. our proposal will make the role of businesses easier and it will also be easier for our citizens. regarding parcel deliveries, some people said that this is already a well-organised area and there is really no need to intervene. yes, it is well organised in some countries. in the netherlands the difference between domestic parcel prices and cross-border parcel delivery prices is just 1.6 times as much, but in one eu member state this difference is 22 times as much. we do not want to start to regulate those parcel delivery prices, but we would like to ask for more transparency. we believe that if there is more transparency then we will get real competition and our citizens and our businesses will get more affordable prices. regarding the scope – a question which was raised by julia reda, jan albrecht, eva paunova and many others – of course we can be more ambitious, and i would like to be more ambitious, but my aim is not to be the most ambitious guy in the world. i would like to achieve some concrete aims and if those proposals are too ambitious then i think it will take years and years and we will not achieve any of our aims. but our aim is to take a step-by-step approach and i am sure that then we will achieve some aims, but of course this was a compromise. consumer organisations asked for a wider scope but, for example, those who represent the music industry in europe were against it. so we had to make some compromises. regarding platforms, we decided not to take a horizontal approach but to take a preventive approach, which also means that there will be action. today we already made our proposal about the audiovisual media services directive, and our aim was to make those advertising rules, sponsorship and product placement, more flexible. today we also made a proposal about the unfair commercial practices directive. this also means that there will be more transparency for platforms. at the end of september we will make our telecom rules proposal, then a second package proposal on copyright, and an e-privacy proposal. it will also be all about our platforms. i am sorry, my time is over, but i would like to continue with the discussions we have just started. if you invite me, it will be my pleasure to take part in your party group meetings and committee meetings.
in writing. there are many loopholes in eu rules that hinder the proper functioning of the digital single market, which could generate profits of up to eur 415 billion per year and 0.4% gdp growth by 2020. intellectual property infringement is a big problem. in 2013 alone, customs authorities recorded as many as 87 000 cases of such abuses, and the estimated value of 36 million articles detained is over eur 768 million. in this context, the european commission has presented a three-pillar e-commerce development plan to prevent the above mentioned problems and to achieve the goals of the digital agenda. its elements are: preventing unjustified geo-blocking; reducing the cost and efficiency of delivering foreign parcels; and improving protection and enforcement. in terms of geo-blocking, the new package takes into account both the consumer's right to shop freely online in different countries and the legal certainty needed by businesses. the proposal also reflects the commission's new approach to online platforms. after a thorough assessment of the social and economic role of these new entities, the commission concluded that a one-size-fits-all approach was not appropriate to meet the diverse challenges of the multitude of types of online platforms.
in writing. the internet revolution has had a huge impact on the ability to trade globally. the new economy, which owes its origins to technological developments, has been the driving force behind the changes in the way business is conducted. regulations in online commerce should not discriminate in any way against the e-customer. purchasing opportunities should be governed by the same rules as in traditional trade. it is not possible to discriminate against a consumer who is so important in his commercial transactions simply because of his place of residence or the country in which he is established. regulation of the conditions under which undertakings operate in the digital market will, as a result, increase the e-consumer's trust in online shopping. the ongoing unfair practices of operators on online platforms that are part of the digital reality should be eliminated. they have increased the possibilities for consumers and businesses to make purchases and transactions. regulations must be introduced which will ultimately contribute to the creation of fair competition. the fair functioning of the operators will give all market participants equal opportunities for development.
madam commissioner, thank you very much to you and your team for an excellent job, and i think that now we are getting to the end of the story, which means that we will have a privacy shield. we are all aware of the importance of data and transnational data flows in the modern economy. to ensure a right solution for transnational data flow is especially important for smes that have less legal and investment possibilities and which will be the important beneficiaries of such an instrument. i believe that we need the privacy shield to ensure that our data-driven economy grows, especially supporting smes. i believe that it is a good approach to rebuild the transatlantic trust and strengthen the data protection rights on both sides of the atlantic. the presented instrument introduces many improvements to the protection of fundamental rights. among others, it strengthens member states’ data protection authorities’ role in the process of claims investigations. the legal remedies are strengthened for eu citizens and residents also by the creation of an ombudsperson, and it would work on both sides of the atlantic. americans also change their legislation and their attitude. what is now needed is to make sure that these legal remedies are really available to eu citizens and residents as well as the regular review of the implementation of the privacy shield. i see the role of the european commission, edps and data protection authorities for this task.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! i also want to welcome the progress made in the talks on the exchange of personal data between the european union and the united states. the united states is a natural, positive partner of europe and these talks need to be conducted on the basis of trust, not suspicion. i'm glad about these settlements, even these preliminary settlements, the institutional ideas, the claims mechanism. i think we should ensure the highest possible level of protection of personal data in this agreement, but at the same time be guided by the principle of rationality. i have the impression that the right to privacy is often interpreted as an abuse, which is often at odds with other goods. in the field of security in particular, the right to privacy cannot be interpreted in such a way as to prevent the protection of the security of our citizens, the security of europe, the united states and the transatlantic community.
madam president! the digitisation of documents is another element of our common market, of our common functioning in the european union and of the disappearance of frontiers, as the commissioner has mentioned. they should be disappearing, and it's still in the digital world that these boundaries are felt and very visible. the encryption of documents must be secure and accessible. we must have one european system for the whole european union, otherwise we will again be working for hours, days, weeks and years to harmonize this system, and it will be as difficult as harmonizing the laws that have long existed in the european union. mr. synadinos spoke (he has left, unfortunately) about digital documents in the context of refugees. i was in several refugee camps in greece just last week, and actually one of the fundamental problems for these people who are sitting for months in camps completely without meaning is that getting documents is so difficult. if we had electronic documents today, easily accessible and secure, if this data, as we say in this room, could be collected once from everyone, instead of many times, if fingerprints could be collected more easily and stored securely, then we would not only avoid the feeling of insecurity that our documents could be forged, but we would also avoid the suffering of many thousands of people who wander around on our continent without papers. so i also strongly encourage you to speed up this process for us and for those who come to our continent. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. my dear fellow! you just amused me so much that i can't help laughing. the harmonization of digital documents, the harmonization of digital documents in the european union, as well as the harmonization of different laws and regulations, does not necessarily mean the abolition of the countries in the european union, the member states. and i'm sure if you have a document that works in all countries, it won't diminish your sense of nationality, nor will it take away your identity. i can guarantee you that. i can fingerprint it.
madam president, mr vice-president, there is no possibility to go forward and to implement the digital single market solutions without some crucial technical and essential conditions. one of them is, of course, e-identification, supported by interoperability and proper standardisation. how can we develop public services accessible all over europe without a digital identity? it means that we need to speed up the implementation of the e-id project and go ahead with digital-by-default solutions and the ‘once only’ principle, which really simplify all kinds of services and make many relations between government and citizens much more open. how can we develop e—commerce without user-friendly digital identity, which is key for speeding up and scaling up the business processes, but also for the trust and for avoiding cybercrimes at the large scale? how can we develop portability of many services’ digital content without clear solutions in the area of e-identity? discussing the digital content services regulation, we are trying to find various forms for the verification of the identity. it would be much simpler to have the national, but european-compatible e-identity. so we need it. we have a framework, we have tools, we have projects, now we have the action prepared by the european commission and good proposals in the e-government communication, but what we feel is a lack, a deficit – the readiness to go in this direction at the same time by all member states. the political will is needed first of all.
we read in the report very good words about the free market, about competition. and then it turns out that all of this is worthless, because there are better kinds of energy, and there are worse kinds of energy. the commission or parliament knows better what people should heat their homes with and how. we also learn that access to energy is a social right, which means, in short, that without communism, there is no say in the european union. there is no reason to think that man has a social right to energy, because if we continue down this path, we will soon come to the conclusion that man should have a guaranteed social access to women -- especially beautiful women -- and that would solve one very important social problem. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the vice-president for his comment, a positive comment, on the report by our colleague, mrs theresa griffin, which i highly appreciate. of course, with some of the specific solutions, which perhaps go too far, it is difficult to agree, but overall this is a very useful report and i thank my colleague very much for her work. i wanted to highlight three things. a lot of people have talked about the need to strengthen our approach to energy efficiency and end-use. this is the number one problem in any energy issue. secondly, the prosumer energy, you can't develop it without properly constructed power grids, smart meters, smart grids. these are huge costs and member states have to think about how they are going to pay for them, because not all costs can be passed on to the energy companies. it also has to be a budgetary responsibility. and the third thing is very important: cheap, safe and clean energy for consumers requires the right conditions for energy companies. the common market has already been discussed. it's about those who generate, transmit electricity, work on new production technologies, transmit, store energy and also transmit and produce gas. without a well-developed market and without good energy companies, we cannot deal with energy poverty.
the report we are debating is extremely interesting. it raises very important issues, especially in the social aspect. we certainly need a well-organised, well-designed system for energy consumers in europe. but the report mixes - i would say - many very beautiful ideas, ideals with unrealistic demands. and you have to be fully aware of that. we must also remember that the role of certain entities or sectors in the state cannot and should not be misunderstood. social assistance, social assistance is the responsibility of public entities, including the states and us as the european union, and it's hard to imagine that this state responsibility, public responsibility, is being shifted to the commercial, private market. nor should we confuse professional energy with individual energy, and the demands that 100% of energy, for example, come from green energy or distributed energy sources, are not only unrealistic, but if they were to be implemented, they would be fundamentally dangerous not only for the energy security, the economic security of the european union, but for the beneficiaries of this report, that is, for the citizens, for the consumers.
in writing. last december, i supported the directive drawn up by mr marek gróbarczyk as a balanced and serious proposal to show the commission and the council the best compromise, without giving in to unrealistic climate protection ambitions, in the hope that it would become the basis for developing more realistic legislative proposals. the current energy policy - the exaggerated, scientifically insufficient so-called 'european climate policy' - needs to be reassessed and separated from the real energy policy. it cannot continue to be shaped by the lobbying of some countries and the big gas and financial corporations. a genuine energy union should lead to a change in the climate and energy package that would combat unfair competition between member states and lead to increased competitiveness in global markets. i would like to reiterate that the priority of the energy union should be energy security, solidarity of supply and the fight against energy poverty while maintaining competitiveness on third markets, as well as the modernisation of infrastructure leading to maximised energy efficiency and transparency in energy price negotiations with third countries, and the use of local energy sources, including green coal technology. the biggest benefit for citizens (and the eventual energy union) will be a complete shift away from the current eu ets to one that is less bureaucratically confusing and speculative than the current system.
madam president! poverty and the status of women are key social issues. we know this well in poland, because we are now launching a pioneering family assistance programme that will greatly improve the situation of women. i just don't understand why in our report on such important issues the far left includes matters that have nothing to do with the issue we are talking about. why do we ask european countries to recognize lgbti families in this report ? what kind of families are these? what families are we talking about? what is a bisexual family? what is an intersex family? in which european country are these types of phenomena recognized? because it's not a coincidence that, for example, mariage pour tous. i mean, these are things that we haven't defined at all. all of this shows that we are facing a revolution that is going to destroy the world we grew up in and owe our freedom to.
i would first like to point out that my colleague said that there are 120 million poor people in europe, and your rapporteur said that there are 29 million women living in poverty. so that means there are 91 million men living in poverty, and i don't know why we're focusing on women. but that's not the point: i was saying that single women are living in poverty because they're not taught to be good mothers, they're not taught to be good wives, but they're taught in schools things that are completely unnecessary, including their gender theories.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the single market, one of the most important achievements of a united europe, is not fully functioning in all its dimensions. while we have succeeded in eliminating tariff barriers, non-tariff barriers remain a major problem. however, it should be borne in mind that, as the report clearly states, some of them serve to implement public policies in the member states and their removal is not indicated. however, any protectionist measures that are designed to protect domestic firms from foreign competition are a problem. such measures include the imposition of excessive formal and bureaucratic requirements on firms from other member states and the use of excessive and unjustified controls on economic operators, which effectively discourage businesses from exporting their goods or services. such actions are detrimental to the whole of the european union and undermine the competitiveness of the single market. i agree with the rapporteur that the legal basis for the full functioning of the single market is already in place. it is therefore essential that we all - politicians and business people - begin to see the european market as a coherent whole and to see in it the opportunities to exploit the full potential of national economies.
the great polish politician stefan kisielewski once said, "it's not a crisis, it's a result". well, europe is in a permanent crisis, and it's not an accident that this is the result of the occupation of europe by a bureaucratic entity called the european union. it's so sad to see how many decent people are sitting here, wanting the best, and the effects are that the rate of development is falling, the number of children is falling. europe is not growing at all. europe is dying. where nature can't stand a vacuum, there are hordes of people who want to settle down, where there's a demographic gap. this is all the result of the european union, and the people who think like the european union. therefore, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
the european commission is continuing its actions against poland, against my country, in a completely open way, usurping the competences of the european council. article 7 says very clearly that our parliament, the european commission or one-third of the governments can accuse a country of deviating from the principles of the european union, but only to make a complaint. the judge of this charge is the governments, the intergovernmental mechanism, the european council. the fact that the european commission is so concerned with denying our freedoms shows how incompetent it is to govern. it opens conflict after conflict. it wasn't enough to have an immigration crisis, it wasn't enough to have a financial crisis in the eurozone, it wasn't enough to have a crisis in the uk's membership, because that's the nature of the brexit referendum. we should have attacked hungary, today we should attack poland. the greatest threat to our freedom is that these people see criticism of their policies and criticism of their government as criticism of the european union as such.
ladies and gentlemen! the question is familiar to everyone, so i'm going to focus on commenting on the question, on the rationale for it. it is safe to say that the situation on the milk market is a crisis. the milk market has always been sensitive, as there have been serious disturbances even during the quotation period, as was demonstrated in 2008/09. after the milk quota was abolished, the situation became complicated. even before the quota expired, milk producers had decided to increase production in order to have a stronger position on the liberalised market. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. it is understandable that each producer wants to increase its income, hence the above-mentioned favourable conditions have led to an increase in production. most farmers also have to finance the repayment of loans. the milk market is a global market, and therefore it is affected by production, supply and demand in different regions and countries of the world. in 2015, production also increased in the usa, australia. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. imports of milk and milk products from china also decreased. at the same time, there was no increase in consumption, which was probably due to the media coverage of the harmful effects of lactose on human health. the excess supply over demand has led to a very significant drop in milk prices, which are below production costs. the situation on the european market is therefore worrying, with just over half of the 420 million allocated to intervention on agricultural markets last autumn having been used up. in this respect, commissioner hogan has left member states a great deal of room for manoeuvre in the use of these funds. we have always proposed greater flexibility for countries, which commissioner hogan has done. it can be seen that, despite the various positive and very important actions taken at commission and country level, the effects are very little visible. there is an urgent need to create a balance between supply and demand. however, no instruments were proposed to reduce production. the assumption that farmers will do this voluntarily is not supported by the facts. farmers protect themselves from bankruptcy by increasing production. some form of payment for the reduction of production should therefore be applied, while ensuring that farms are able to maintain their financial liquidity so that they do not undertake to eliminate the stock earlier and on a larger scale. the efforts of the member states and commissioner hogan to increase sales in third countries are to be welcomed, but at the same time the consumption of milk products on the domestic markets, especially where it is relatively low, should be increased. we are also thinking of using the free food distribution scheme adopted by the european union in this respect, or of allocating more milk products to the group of people coming to europe. the above situation illustrates the extent to which the european milk market is dependent on the world market, other external factors, often of a political nature, such as the russian embargo, or far-reaching concessions to the detriment of agriculture in trade agreements concluded by the union with third countries, where agricultural matters are often sacrificed for advantages in other areas of trade. the first priority is therefore to improve the efficiency of the milk chain from the milk-producing cow to the consumer. there are many elements that need to be improved in terms of vertical integration and the functioning of cooperatives, because there too, the various cooperatives are owned by the members, the costs are borne by the farmers. there is scope for efficiency gains through better vertical integration.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the dramatic situation in which most polish milk producers find themselves, with purchase prices hovering around 20 euro cents per litre, the government has prepared a support programme for them. in summary, it consists in the possibility of waiving the payment of the second and third instalment of the surplus milk penalty if the producer proves that the financial situation of his holding is in difficulty. the milk producers in poland have already paid the first instalment of this fine of around eur 70 million, while the remaining amount to be paid is around eur 100 million. the polish budget has borne the full cost of the milk fines, as the european commission has deducted the amount of eur 170 million from current payments to our country. i hope that the european commission will soon agree to apply this form of aid to milk producers in poland, because the economic existence of thousands of dairy farms, which have undergone a profound modernisation in recent years, benefiting from the resources of pillar ii of the cap, is at risk.
the situation on the milk market is difficult and is mainly due to an imbalance between supply and demand. in recent years, european farmers have invested and developed milk production, encouraged by european funds. the milk quotas, which were supposed to stabilise the milk market, were abolished as of april 2015. the situation is aggravated by the russian embargo and the decline in demand from developing countries, especially china. the rate of decline in the dairy herd in poland is one of the highest in the european union, and the purchase price of milk in poland is about 8 percent below the eu average, and has recently fallen as low as 17 euro cents per litre. i would like to ask the commission to waive the fines imposed on polish producers, which amount to over eur 161 million, and what action the european commission intends to take to support farmers in this dramatic crisis situation on the milk market.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask mr petir and all christian socialists too: why do you not want poor people to have cheap milk? the milk should be cheap. if the milk is too cheap, some producers go bankrupt and the price of the milk goes to the rational level.
in writing. the situation in the european milk sector has been difficult for some time, and in recent months we have been talking about drama. the 13% decline in the milk price compared to the last five years, with an additional downward trend, makes production unprofitable and many producers are on the verge of bankruptcy. the european commission has already implemented a number of measures to improve the situation, including the mobilisation of over €1 billion over the past two years to support the dairy sector, and a package of additional measures in march this year. these are undoubtedly very important steps towards overcoming the crisis, but the current situation shows that they are still not enough. to compensate for low prices, farmers produce more, leading to an overproduction of milk that does not go hand in hand with increased consumption. i believe that one of the necessary and urgent solutions is to promote european dairy products and to find new markets for them. this is also particularly important in the context of reduced demand from china and the russian embargo. i appreciate the european commission's current efforts in this area, but i believe that given the gravity of the situation, the effort must be intensified to the maximum extent possible in order to achieve the desired effect as quickly and as widely as possible.
in writing. a few years ago, european farmers were encouraged to expand production to take advantage of the growing demand on world markets. so farmers invested and expanded their production. this situation has been used in the eu to weaken or dismantle the cap instruments that were supposed to stabilise the market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the milk quota. the situation of milk producers in poland, as in the european union as a whole, is dramatic. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the milk levy is justified by the fact that the milk levy is not directly linked to the milk levy. some farmers get 17 cents a gallon of milk. i call on the commission, in the face of the continuing russian embargo on dairy products, to waive the fines imposed on polish producers, which amount to over eur 161 million. i would like to ask the commission again to allocate additional financial resources to producers in the dairy, pigmeat and other sectors affected by the crisis. the fate of milk producers depends on the commission's immediate financial assistance.
we heard from mrs. elżbieta bieńkowska a lot of good words about the free market, about the single market, and then it is not clear why the lady from empl, the employment and social affairs committee, whose goal is of course that there is no single market, was allowed to speak. all the socialists are there: mrs. reda and others said that social issues are more important than some free market. there was a discussion about milk a moment ago. the only thing that worried marijana petir was how to keep the children in croatia from cheap milk from other countries, from milk of inadequate quality. well, if some official decides what milk is good, then you know that the big company will bribe and the big companies will get the status of good quality milk. only a free market can protect the consumer from the domination of big business, which bribes government officials. the free market was the belle époque, when there was no european union, at the end of the 19th century, and that is why i think the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! to return to my previous speech, i am surprised that someone who considers himself a liberal would waste public money to talk such nonsense here, and has been for a long time, and i am a little ashamed of it, and i am sorry. commissioner, my colleague lara comi, colleagues and friends! we have long been demanding good and fair information for the consumer, but i wonder and i will focus today on just one point, whether the information on the country of origin, this point made in really arouses colossal emotions in all of us here. is the information on the country of origin, and i mean the countries within the european union, really the information on the quality of the product, who is responsible for the quality of the product: the country or the company? take this scarf for example: the yarn may come from one country, it may be woven in another country, it may be dyed in another country, the designer may come from another country, so the company is all of these things that i'm talking about, a company that the consumer should have confidence in and that should provide the consumer with the right information, and i would like a common market where it's companies that compete, not european countries competing with each other. it should be a market that does not burden smes with additional red tape.
in writing. ‒ this very balanced report discusses the opportunities and risks associated with virtual currencies and decentralised ledger technology in the area of payments. the issue of dlt applications in areas other than payments was raised and recommendations were made on the approach to be taken. the report highlights the potential of virtual currencies to reduce transaction and handling costs for cross-border money transfers, reduce the cost of access to finance for those without a bank account, and develop secure online micropayment systems. as regards risks, the report highlighted the lack of governance structures, the limited capacity of regulatory authorities, consumer protection aspects and the potential for use for money laundering and terrorist financing. i support the compromise reached on these issues, as the proposed extension of the scope of the aml directive was limited to virtual currency exchange platforms after an impact assessment, and therefore does not cover e-wallet services. in view of the main points of the report and the compromises reached, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the jakob von weizsäcke report in which the european parliament calls on the european commission to set up a working group on virtual currency. this is all to develop regulatory tools and promote virtual wallets. virtual currencies are a very fast growing segment of the global market, the value of global transactions has already exceeded eur 1 billion, so i think we should not remain passive towards this segment of the market. it is very important to establish surveillance to avoid potential systemic risks. at the same time, i support the european commission's initiative to extend the anti-money laundering directive to virtual currency exchange platforms to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the opportunities and risks associated with virtual currencies and dlt in the area of payments, addresses the issue of dlt applications in areas other than payments and provides recommendations on the approach to be taken. the report highlights the potential of virtual currencies and dlt to reduce transaction and handling costs for cross-border money transfers, reduce the cost of access to finance for unbanked people, and develop secure online micropayment systems. as regards risks, the report highlighted the lack of governance structures, the limited capacity of regulatory authorities, consumer protection aspects and the potential for use for money laundering and terrorist financing. the most controversial points in the report concerned the regulatory approach to be adopted and the proposal to set up a task force under the chairmanship of the commission. the compromise reached limited the proposed extension of the scope of the aml directive to virtual currency exchange platforms after an impact assessment and therefore excluded electronic wallet services. the report recommends that an analysis be carried out on virtual currencies and that, on the basis of this analysis, changes be made to the relevant payment legislation, where appropriate. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currency, i.e. unregulated digital money, issued and usually controlled by its creators, used and accepted by users of a specific virtual community, has gained popularity in recent years. seven years after the launch of bitcoin, the first and most popular virtual currency, with a venture capital value of over €1 billion, it is clear that the technology has huge potential. although it is not yet systemically important, its innovative nature and pace of development can be astonishing. in its report, the european parliament calls on the commission to set up a task force on virtual currencies and to strengthen surveillance of virtual currencies to prevent potential negative effects of their use for money laundering or the financing of criminal and terrorist activities. the report also rightly stressed that the scope of the directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing should be extended to virtual currency exchange platforms. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the report on virtual currency.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. france has requested a total financial contribution from the egf of eur 5,1 million to cover the costs of personalised services (training, cv writing, interview preparation, job search skills and company creation) and expenditure on preparatory actions, management, provision and dissemination of information, and control and reporting. i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument to implement these strategies and an effective and cost-effective tool to bring redundant workers back into the labour market. in light of the above, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. france has requested a total financial contribution from the egf of eur 5,1 million to cover the costs of personalised services (training, cv writing, interview preparation, job search skills and company creation) and expenditure on preparatory actions, management, provision and dissemination of information, and control and reporting. the request concerns 2132 redundant workers from moryglobal sas. i support actions that implement strategies to create new jobs, to bring laid-off workers back into the labour market. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. greece has requested a total financial contribution from the egf of eur 6,4 million to cover the costs of active labour market instruments such as training, business start-up, allowances including training and mobility allowances. i personally support actions that implement strategies for growth and jobs. i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument to implement these strategies and an effective and cost-effective tool to bring redundant workers back into the labour market. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. greece has requested a total financial contribution from the egf of eur 6,4 million to cover the costs of active labour market instruments such as training, business start-up, allowances including training and mobility allowances. the request concerns 557 workers made redundant by supermarket larissa abee. i support actions that implement strategies to create new jobs, to bring laid-off workers back into the labour market. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. - after considering the motion, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in the proposal, the commission recommends suspending the allocation of refugees granted to sweden under the eu relocation scheme for 12 months. the council also adopted two decisions establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy and greece. the council decided that 40 000 applicants for international protection are to be transferred from italy and greece to other member states. of these, 1369 persons were allocated to sweden by council decision 2015/1523 and 4358 persons by council decision 2015/1601. in the event of an emergency situation in a member state characterised by a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries, the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, may adopt provisional measures for the benefit of the member state concerned, in accordance with article 78 (3). by letter of 5 november 2015, sweden notified the commission and the council that it was in a situation referred to in article 4 (3) of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy and greece. sweden has provided a duly substantiated justification and requested an adjustment of the relocation mechanism in its favour. i agree with the arguments put forward by sweden on the relocation of refugees and have therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. – i abstained in voting both, the commission proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, and in voting a legislative resolution of the european parliament in this respect. i consider an obligatory relocation mechanism established by the council a mistake and the difficult situation of sweden supports my position.
in writing. ‒ in the proposal, the commission recommends suspending the allocation of refugees granted to sweden under the eu relocation scheme for 12 months. the commission has also received information from the member states and the member states on the number of persons to be relocated from italy and greece to sweden. in accordance with the second subparagraph of article 4 (3) of decision 2015/1601, a member state may, giving due justification , notify the commission and the council that it is in an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of third-country nationals caused by a sudden change in the direction of migratory flows. the commission shall evaluate the justification given and, where appropriate, submit proposals to the council. by letter of 5 november 2015, sweden notified the commission and the council that it was in a situation referred to in article 4 (3) of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy and greece. sweden has provided a duly substantiated justification and requested an adjustment of the relocation mechanism in its favour. by letter of 8 december 2015, sweden formally requested the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ last year, when decisions were being taken that are now being challenged by successive states as impossible to implement, i drew the attention of the european parliament to the fact that the relocation mechanism would be ineffective because it was too arbitrary in its assumptions and did not take into account the social context. i see no good reason today to defend a decision that was wrong then. sweden's request to suspend last year's decisions is justified by the country's asylum situation and i therefore support the european commission's proposal on this matter, which is in line with sweden's request.
in writing. ‒ the forced relocation mechanism for so-called refugees is a harmful utopia which, apart from deepening the political crisis in which the european union finds itself, will not bring a solution to the problem of the uncontrolled flow of migrants into europe. it is contrary to common sense to impose on member states the acceptance of quotas of immigrants without taking into account their economic or social situation. this system cannot work in practice. the request made by the government in stockholm is justified, but for reasons that are completely different from what the swedes themselves believe. it is hard not to feel that the huge number of immigrants now in sweden is the result of bad government policies. however, i believe that despite this context, we should support this proposal and thus oppose the policy of forced relocation as an idea pushed by the european commission. in any such case, where a member state wishes to challenge the meaning of such a mechanism, such a request should be supported. we need to send a clear signal to discourage potential migrants from attempting to cross the eu border illegally. the first step in solving the current crisis is to effectively stop new waves of refugees. consent to forced relocation will prevent that goal. of course we must help our partners to deal with the problem that has affected them, but only in a way that does not increase the level of risk for citizens of other member states.
in writing. ‒ data flows are an essential element of the eu's security, economic and trade relations. smes accounted for 60% of enterprises relying on a secure transfer of personal data agreement, which allowed them to benefit from targeted and cost-effective compliance requirements. there are already agreements on the exchange of information in certain policy areas, including the terrorist finance tracking programme and the eu-us agreement on passenger name record data. following the ets schrems ruling and in response to allegations of mass surveillance, the us congress and administration have made more than 20 changes to surveillance laws and programs since 2013. reforms include the us freedom act, which prohibits the bulk collection of data, the presidential proclamation (ppd-28) that makes the protection of privacy and civil liberties of non-eu individuals an integral part of us surveillance policy, and the judicial appeals act, which extends data protection measures to eu citizens. i personally support the implementation and adoption of the new privacy shield and i want the eu-us general data protection umbrella agreement to be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. i believe that these two agreements guarantee a high level of protection and legal certainty for businesses and consumers, a level that has not been achieved so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the european commission to continue negotiations with the us on better protection of citizens' data transferred to the us. the commission and the us administration are working to improve existing safeguards to protect the privacy of eu citizens whose personal data is leaked, for example, when they shop online. as the number of transactions increases, so does the risk that they will be used without the knowledge of the citizen, to his or her detriment, for example by intelligence agencies. to prevent this, the data protection guaranteed by union law should be maintained even after the data leaves the territory of the eu. the aim of the system is to replace the previous transatlantic data transfer system ('safe harbour') with a new, more efficient mechanism ('privacy shield'). unfortunately, there's been no significant improvement. the americans do not guarantee the level of protection required by eu law. they're proposing that the state department appoint a civil rights attorney to investigate claims by europeans. i doubt that an ombudsman who is dependent on the us executive and has too few powers could effectively carry out his duties. the commission and the us administration should create a more efficient and european citizen-friendly redress mechanism. the commission should periodically assess the compliance of its privacy decision with eu rules in order to strengthen data protection in the eu.
in writing. ‒ data flows are an essential component of the eu's security, economic and trade relations. there are already agreements on the exchange of information in some policy areas, including the terrorist finance tracking programme, the eu-us passenger flight data agreement and the safe harbor recently concluded privacy shield agreement. the recently adopted general data protection regulation and the data protection for law enforcement purposes directive also address data protection in relation to third countries. since 2013, the u.s. congress and the u.s. administration have made more than 20 changes to surveillance laws and programs. reforms include the us freedom act, the presidential proclamation (ppd-28) that makes the protection of privacy and civil liberties of non-eu individuals an integral part of us surveillance policy, and the judicial appeals act that extends data protection measures to eu citizens. the ecr group supports the implementation and adoption of the new privacy shield and wants the eu-us general data protection umbrella agreement to be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. these two agreements guarantee a high level of protection and legal certainty for businesses and consumers, which has not been achieved so far. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ personal data of eu citizens that is collected for commercial purposes, e.g. when shopping online or registering on social media, and that ends up in the us must be adequately protected. the so-called safe harbour agreement of 2000 did not provide sufficient protection. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the new privacy shield agreement proposed by the commission aims to seal the system and improve safeguards protecting the privacy of eu citizens. in the new agreement, the americans committed themselves to having access to eu citizens' data monitored and subject to clear limits. in addition, the u.s. government has assured that there will be no surveillance of individuals whose data is sent across the atlantic. us companies that transfer data will have to guarantee the protection of the data they process. the resolution welcomes the proposed agreement, which rightly imposes specific obligations on companies to protect eu citizens' data processed in the us. the privacy shield can bring a number of benefits to european consumers and businesses, especially smes. enabling the free flow of data between the eu and the us is crucial for both economies, trade and investment. that's why i decided to vote for a resolution in favor of a new treaty.
in writing. ‒ the good points of the resolution we voted on are the right institutional ideas and the proposed mechanisms for claim recovery. the data flows between europe and north america should be subject to the highest possible level of protection of personal data, while respecting the principle of reasonableness. when data is collected for the purpose of fighting the worst crimes, the right to privacy must not be abused at the expense of citizens' security. the draft resolution put to the vote today met these criteria and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of digital information between the united states and europe is a necessity that underpins the operations of many businesses in the age of the data-driven economy. however, this need cannot be construed as a disregard for security and privacy. developing clear and effective data exchange rules is the best guarantee of their security and thus gives us confidence that the information we leave about us online will not be used by unauthorised persons. the united states is a demanding negotiating partner that takes a very liberal approach to many privacy law issues. of course, the eu's negotiations should be conducted with the best possible safeguard for our interests, but this cannot lead to a no-deal situation. the current state of these talks is encouraging and shows that even in such a delicate matter it is worthwhile to seek compromise. i believe that the proposals to improve the privacy shield mechanism, which is intended to ensure better definition of key terms for data exchange and to prevent abuse by controllers, meet the expectations of eu citizens. it also welcomes the development of a claim procedure for natural persons who, when the abuse is discovered, will be able to assert their rights through the courts. of course, while protecting our privacy, we can't forget that digital data analysis is an important tool in the fight against terrorism. we have to be willing to compromise on that.
in writing. ‒ this report is a response to the commission's communication on the implementation of the new energy contract, which is based on three pillars: saving consumers money and energy through better information; increasing consumer choice; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection. i think it's very important to create an energy system that is fair to consumers and helps protect the poor who use energy. however, i am concerned that many of the amendments adopted in the draft report violate the principle of subsidiarity and are not practicable. for example, i am a big supporter of the idea of a broad, non-binding definition of energy poverty, because any attempt to establish a central definition would be useless, because nations define energy needs or low-income thresholds differently. it should also be noted that a large number of the provisions cited in the report already exist under the third energy package and therefore require better implementation rather than new provisions. however, these are not very negative records and in my opinion the report is appropriate and raises important issues. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs theresa griffin. it stressed the need for better protection of eu consumers, especially energy consumers who have to pay high penalties for switching energy suppliers. we should strive to abolish such practices. this requires cooperation between member states good practices should be identified and the exchange of information should be encouraged. one way would be to develop a database of measures taken by different member states to prevent unfair practices by energy suppliers. local authorities, national regulators and energy companies can play a key role in addressing this issue. a common european approach is needed to find long-term solutions that benefit consumers and provide our industry with access to affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ this report is a response to the commission's communication on the implementation of the new energy contract, which is based on three pillars: saving consumers money and energy through better information; increasing consumer choice; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection. the creation of an energy system that is fair to consumers and contributes to the protection of poor energy consumers should be encouraged. however, many of the amendments adopted in the draft report violate the principle of subsidiarity. for example, the idea of a broad and non-binding definition of energy poverty is a good one, but any attempt to create a central definition would be useless, as different nations define energy needs or low income thresholds. it should also be noted that many of the provisions cited in the report already exist under the third energy package. they therefore require better implementation and perhaps the introduction of new, necessary legislation. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ consumers should have a greater say in the energy market. i think that there should be a system in place to ensure that consumers are able to benefit from fair offers. it is appropriate to introduce better tools for comparing the offers of energy suppliers on the market and to ensure a transparent contract for switching. we must prevent citizens from being forced to give up energy because of lower incomes. energy poverty is the result of incorrect regulation that does not take into account the financial situation of households. all consumers should be provided with comprehensive information on the proposed energy offers so that they are not subject to additional charges in the event of withdrawal. i believe that the introduction of innovative business models will make it easier for consumers to use energy efficiently.
in writing. ‒ electricity is a strategic asset whose trade should not be beyond the control of regulatory authorities. however, we must be aware that the current model of electricity generation and distribution must be constantly evolving to meet the growing demand of consumers. greater efficiency and flexibility in energy production and consumption are essential if europe is to be able to produce the amount of energy needed to maintain a constant level of household supply. of course, when designing the shape of the european energy market, we must take into account the differences between member states, especially in the energy mix. we cannot accept any solution which discriminates against countries such as poland, for whom coal is the main source of energy. the freedom of choice of the consumer's energy supplier must entail real price differences and the possibility of making an informed choice, for which the possibility of comparing the offers of all operators is essential. we must especially look after the needs of the lowest income groups, who spend a large part of their income on basic goods, including electricity. more attention and resources should be devoted to supporting individual forms of energy production that significantly reduce costs and improve resource efficiency. as the report takes account of the above considerations, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the problem of poverty and the social marginalisation of women has been a particular focus for many years. the issue of addressing the causes and consequences of various aspects of women's insecurity has been raised repeatedly in numerous resolutions. according to the latest statistics, 16.6% of citizens in the 28 eu member states are at risk of poverty as a result of social transfers. the risk of poverty for women is 17.2% and for men 16.1%. one of the main reasons is the persisting disparity in wages and pensions. the report contains many ideas which i fully support, such as the elimination of the gender pay gap, the adoption of measures to promote work-life balance, the introduction of flexible working hours, etc. however, it touches on a number of issues with which i do not agree, such as the commission's call to work on a proposal for a minimum wage, the individual examination of household income to determine social rights (assuming that women are always at a disadvantage), a new eu legal act on combating gender-based violence, combating stereotypes through educational programmes, etc. in view of the above, i was forced to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report by maria arena of the s&d group on poverty from a gender perspective, because it contains many articles that violate the principle of subsidiarity and poland's interest. these include proposals for a uniform eu definition of work of equal value and the universal implementation of minimum wages and pensions; proposals for gender-equitable taxation; calls for no spending cuts in public administration and no development of flexible forms of work. i consider the latter in particular to be harmful to women and to the proper functioning of the labour market in general, with particular reference to smes, including family businesses. that is why i voted against these proposals. at the same time, i supported the article welcoming the idea of carer's leave in the commission's proposal for a policy on reconciling domestic and occupational responsibilities. this proposal arises from the fact that the duty of care extends not only to the parents of minor children but also to adult children towards their aging parents, grandparents and other relatives. this perspective of thinking about barriers to women's entry into the labour market is more appropriate to the reality where caring responsibilities are not only for children but also for the elderly in the family. the search for a more universal response to the conflict of employment caused by caring responsibilities is more appropriate than imposing on member states inflexible solutions to the ec's withdrawn parent directive.
in writing. ‒ the problem of poverty and the social marginalisation of women has been a particular focus for many years. women are generally more at risk of poverty than men on average, especially single mothers, pensioners and women with disabilities. the report contains many ideas that deserve support, such as: closing the gender pay gap, adopting measures to promote work-life balance, introducing flexible working hours (on a voluntary basis), the role of education in improving the situation of women, promoting women's entrepreneurship, etc. however, it raises a number of issues with which we cannot agree, such as the commission's call for a proposal on minimum wages (taking into account national conditions; we believe, however, that this issue should not be regulated by the eu), the individual treatment of household income to determine social rights (assuming that women are always at a disadvantage), a new eu legal act on combating gender-based violence (and supporting the istanbul convention), the fight against stereotypes through educational programmes, etc. the report also contains points that are controversial, such as support for the maternity leave directive or numerous references to the rights of lgbt people. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ more than 122 million people in europe are at risk of poverty today. more than half of these are women, especially single mothers who struggle to make ends meet. it is important to remember that women's poverty is passed on to their children, often preventing an entire generation from functioning normally in society. the european parliament's report on women's poverty is a set of recommendations for the eu institutions and member states on how to combat this phenomenon. the document highlighted the persisting gender pay gap and the lack of public support for mothers. the eu's funding for social infrastructure and the creation of a european child guarantee, which would provide free education, decent housing and healthcare for every child, were among the recommendations. despite the very legitimate aim of combating poverty among women and children, the parliament's document contains many unrealistic assumptions and demands, which are also incompatible with the basic principles of the union, such as proportionality and subsidiarity. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ studies have shown that women are a group that is discriminated against in terms of access to the labour market, the capital market and public services. inequalities in this situation create barriers to effective economic development of countries due to the misuse of workers' potential. the discriminatory poverty of women is largely due to the historical construct of their identity in biology and society. the problems arising from widespread stereotypes about women will have a negative impact on the functioning of the sustainable economic process. promoting gender equality will contribute to the emergence of smart development policies, which will consequently have a positive impact on the future of the labour market and the private lives of its participants. i am in favour of taking action that will ultimately improve the working lives of women and will constitute new principles that will result in an increase in the well-being of the whole of society.
in writing. ‒ the fight against the economic exclusion of women and the improvement of their situation in the labour market is an important objective, which the european union should actively contribute to. women are undoubtedly much more at risk of poverty than men. the particular importance of women for the proper functioning of the family as the basic social unit cannot be overestimated and they therefore deserve special protection and effective opportunities to combine work and family life. many of the action proposals in the report deserve full support, including the call to close the gender pay gap, the call to create further mechanisms to enable women to reconcile family and work responsibilities, the call to enable women to benefit more from flexible forms of employment and access to training and upskilling tools. unfortunately, with so many proposed solutions that go beyond the need to improve the situation of women, i cannot agree. in particular, it is an attempt to subordinate the member states and transfer to the european level the mechanism for shaping the minimum wage or the ideologically motivated perception of the problem of violence against women and gender stereotypes. i understand the importance of this issue and, in view of the above arguments, i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report introduces an alternative, trade-focused view of the development of the single market and its current status. it aims to encourage policy-makers to look at the single market and national rules affecting crossborder trade through the lens of international trade. member states may wish to introduce national rules in areas not covered by union or international law or standards for a number of reasons, but in order to remain compatible with the principles of the single market, such rules must be non-discriminatory and proportionate and must pursue a legitimate public policy objective. the report concludes that non-tariff barriers are an unjustifiable barrier to trade and that the commission should therefore give priority to their elimination. the report called for a report to be prepared by the end of this year identifying such barriers as they currently exist and called on member states and the institutions to commit themselves collectively to eliminating these obstacles to the smooth functioning of the single market. i fully agree with the report and have therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years after the single market was launched, unjustified non-tariff barriers continue to have a negative impact on trade and the free movement of goods and services between eu member states. the european commission estimates that the removal of these barriers would generate economic gains of eur 1.1 trillion per year, equivalent to 63% of the eu's gdp. the diversity of national regulations, due to the lack of transposition of eu directives and the accuracy of their implementation, that a company may face when it wants to trade cross-border or provide services in another member state, makes many companies give up this possibility. only 2% of new smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups have cross-border activities thanks to foreign direct investment. the commission has already repealed unnecessary eu rules, now it is the member states' turn, reflecting the result of today's vote. the continuing lack of conformity of member states' rules with those of the union is harmful not only to the single market but also to consumers. in this context, further efforts are needed to encourage member states to bring their legislation into line with the existing eu directives as soon as possible. moreover, it is often the case that national governments introduce numerous additional provisions which adversely affect the common market in the directives they transpose, and the commission should therefore monitor and prevent any modifications to eu law more closely.
in writing. ‒ through the years of the european union, the single market has remained one of the most important fundaments of the european integration. in order to keep it strong however, further harmonisation of free movement of goods and services needs to be pursued, so that unjustified and hampering practices of particular member states can be eliminated, and equal conditions for citizens across the europe can be granted. all of this can be achieved through gradual and step-by-step development of mechanisms. removing of non-tariff barriers is such a necessary step, which strengthens the principle of mutual recognition, and makes member states markets more accessible to foreign importers, ensuring that same conditions apply to both national and non-national producers.
in writing. ‒ this report introduces an alternative, trade-focused view of the development of the single market and its current status. it encourages a look at the single market and national rules affecting crossborder trade through the lens of international trade. the author has sought to define cases where national rules may constitute a non-tariff barrier to intra-eu trade. member states may wish to introduce national rules in areas not covered by union or international law or standards for a number of reasons, but in order to remain compatible with the principles of the single market, such rules must be non-discriminatory and proportionate and must pursue a legitimate public policy objective. the report identifies several sectors where this has been problematic in the past, including the application of the services directive and particularly bad experiences in the retail sector. the report concludes that these non-tariff barriers constitute an unjustifiable barrier to trade and that the commission should therefore give priority to their elimination. the report called for a report to be prepared by the end of this year identifying such barriers as they currently exist and called on member states and the institutions to commit themselves collectively to eliminating these obstacles to the smooth functioning of the single market. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ even though since 1968 we do not have any tariff barriers on the eu’s single market, the functioning of a truly single market is hampered by non-tariff barriers such as excessive national regulations, various additional requirements that are imposed on trade by member states or bureaucracy. non-tariff barriers strongly affect the free movement of goods, services and people, which is supposed to be the backbone of the european project. this report, for which i was a shadow rapporteur on behalf of the epp group, defines, identifies and addresses a variety of ntbs, while also emphasising that the eu should not hesitate anymore to eliminate disproportionate and discriminatory barriers, which are often motivated by protectionism. the eu single market bears a huge potential, which we should use to the highest level, especially in the situation when the economic growth is weak. member states have to stop thinking in a protectionist manner and open their markets to products and services from other member states, fulfilling the idea of a truly competitive single market. therefore, i call on the commission to draw on this report while preparing legislative proposals on eliminating non-tariff barriers in the single market.
in writing. ‒ the persistence of non-tariff barriers to trade in goods in the eu single market is a situation that many operators still have to face. while the eu is committed to the full implementation of the fundamental freedoms for the movement of people, goods, capital and services, there are many cases of growing non-tariff barriers to the internal market, including for food exporters, imposed by individual eu member states. such practices are often discriminatory and distort the competitiveness of food imports in the eu internal market, thus having a negative impact on the eu economy. this situation can directly lead to a reduction in cross-border trade in foodstuffs in the eu internal market and have a negative impact on the functioning of smes in the internal market. in this context, it is necessary for member states to take measures to control and guarantee fair trading conditions, which is in the interest of both producers and consumers. to this end, consideration should be given to various types of action that could ensure the transparent and fair functioning of the internal market, in particular for food products produced by one of the eu's strategic sectors, agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the eu's single market still has many non-tariff barriers, and instead of being reduced, they are increasing in many respects, hampering the free movement of goods and services between countries. additional technical regulations, product or service requirements, lack of mutual recognition of qualifications, and red tape are just some of the methods of protectionism applied to non-domestic producers and service providers that are not applied to domestic companies. the parliament's report defines and identifies the different types of non-tariff barriers, stressing that the eu and the member states have a duty to eliminate them. the commission's role in the implementation of the new rules is to ensure that the existing rules are properly implemented and that the european commission responds quickly to new national restrictions. it is important to remember that the eu single market has enormous potential which must be exploited, especially in a context of unstable economic growth and a decline in europe's importance in world trade. eu countries must stop thinking in a protectionist way as soon as possible and open their markets to other players. only then will we be able to exploit the full potential of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the attempt to deny the fundamental principles on which the european union is founded is a dangerous trend that we are increasingly faced with. these fundamental principles are not, as the european commission very often wishes, abstract political values, but economic freedoms, which enable all member states to benefit from the single market on an equal footing. unfortunately, we are now faced with a situation in which these freedoms are restricted and limited by the internal legislation of the member states, which is contrary to european law. of course, in justified cases, such regulation of the free movement of goods and services is necessary and justified, but it must then be proportionate to the objective pursued, non-discriminatory towards operators from different countries with the same business profile and have a clear objective relating to the protection of the public good. an example that illustrates this problem well is the minimum wage regulations introduced by the government of the federal republic of germany, which lead to unjustified discrimination against polish transport companies. despite the clear breach of the rules on the functioning of the single market, these rules are still in force and the european commission is postponing a decision on the matter. such cases should be investigated and clarified quickly in order not to encourage other member states to take similar steps. i believe that the commission should do much more and enforce the economic freedoms of the eu more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out parliament's position on the commission's strategy for the single market. the report supported many of the main proposals set out in the commission's communication, although it also made a number of additional demands consistent with priorities previously identified by parliament's political groups. the report is overwhelmingly positive and recognises the need to improve the single market, particularly in the services sector. the report contains several points of concern for the group, in particular support for the product safety and market surveillance package currently under consideration, which is blocked in the council, instead of proposing an alternative approach that would allow the commission to rationalise the proposals and propose only those parts that are relevant. nevertheless, the report is generally sufficiently positive in terms of the priorities for improving the single market. given the small number of points of dispute in this report, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out parliament's position on the commission's strategy for the single market. the report supported many of the main proposals set out in the commission's communication, although it also made a number of additional demands consistent with priorities previously identified by parliament's political groups. the report is overwhelmingly positive and recognises the need to improve the single market, particularly in the services sector. it also echoes the call made in the dalton report for the elimination of non-tariff barriers. the report contains several problematic points, in particular support for the product safety and market surveillance package currently under consideration, which is blocked in the council, instead of proposing an alternative approach that would allow the commission to rationalise proposals and propose only those parts that are relevant. the report makes proposals on vat rates in e-commerce; mandatory labelling of certain types of products; geographical indications for non-agricultural products. nevertheless, the report is generally sufficiently positive in terms of the priorities for improving the single market. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ last year the ec presented a strategy on how to boost the performance of the european single market. the document, focusing on services and product markets, underlines some ways to enable a balanced development of the collaborative economy and to help smes and start—ups to grow. all of those initiatives are aimed at releasing the full potential of the eu single market. however, the european parliament’s document addressing the single market strategy, with all its positive aspects, includes points that could even further divide the internal market. i believe the principle ‘equal pay for equal work’ is not only against the idea of the single market, but fundamentally inconsistent with the mechanism of competition and basic principles of economics. wages should reflect differences in productivity levels, and cannot be uniform. likewise, companies across europe differ in terms of quality and technological advancement of their products. moreover, the report again speaks about ‘social dumping’, which has never been defined in economic or legal terms. i believe both slogans ‘equal pay for equal work’ and ‘social dumping’ encourage protectionist measures that would further hamper the functioning of the single market and harm competition. hence, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the single market creates an opportunity not only for businesses and workers, but also for consumers to have a wider choice of goods and services of higher quality and at lower prices. it is one of the greatest achievements of a united europe. however, these possibilities are not always fully exploited. this is why it is so important to work towards improving the functioning of the single market. the european commission's evaluation report of the single market strategy presented by parliament last year highlights a number of important issues that should be given priority. this includes support for smes and innovative start-ups, tackling payment bottlenecks, deregulating professions, promoting public-private partnerships and, finally, exploiting the full potential of the digital revolution. unfortunately, the parliament's document also contains a provision on the implementation of the controversial principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. in my view, it is fundamentally contrary to the idea of the single market. different companies have very different operating costs and those from another country have additional burdens that local companies do not have. i believe that the slogan is more about protectionism and the desire to restrict competition in the common market than about protecting workers' rights. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the few indisputable achievements of european integration, which, in the face of the many crises affecting the eu today, is an example of the success of the cooperation model adopted by the member states. the creation of equal opportunities and non-discriminatory rules for the operation of economic operators in all member states is a historic opportunity for the countries of central and eastern europe to overcome the economic backwardness of their western european partners. the world is constantly changing and the shape of the single market as it was designed in the early 1990s must also change. the growing role of smes in the european economy and the digital revolution are issues that we need to better integrate into the definition of the single market. strengthening the principle of free movement of goods and services should be one of the priorities of the present european commission. this is particularly relevant in the context of actions taken by countries such as germany and france which are undermining the freedom of activity of transport companies from poland. the commission's proposed amendments to the posted workers directive, which could restrict the freedoms of the single market, are also a cause for concern. this is not something that should be allowed. i fully support all steps to ensure better enforcement of european law in the area of freedom of establishment in the eu and hope that this report will contribute to strengthening the single market.
i support the report by mr preda, which calls for greater involvement of the european parliament in development policy, with particular emphasis on migration, trade and finance, the environment, agriculture and international cooperation, both within the member states and with the united states and the bric countries. the european parliament should support the cohesion policy initiative, which has as its main objective an effective long-term development agenda. the report also sets out the mechanisms by which the european parliament has supported the implementation of policy coherence for development and the crucial role of appropriate documentation necessary for effective monitoring of the actions taken by the european parliament and the member states. the report's proposed amendment to the 2030 agenda emphasises the need to set universal targets for all countries, moving away from the developed country as donor and developing country as recipient model. as concord research shows, most countries do not carry out analyses to assess the impact of their cohesion policy actions on development, which makes it difficult to assess the effectiveness of our policies. the report by mr preda, while suggesting that member states should carry out more detailed studies of the concrete effects of cohesion policy actions on development, also proposes another solution: the introduction of an arbitration system under the direct leadership of the commission representative, acting in the event of discrepancies between the various actions of the european union, and an independent complaints system for citizens of developing countries directly affected by the actions of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! today we're discussing one of the most important issues of our time. unfortunately, i'm afraid a lot of people don't appreciate that. that is why it is all the more important to thank the rapporteur, mr preda, and what he has brought to the table in his report. many of the speakers here are taking the subject that we're talking about, only in the humanitarian realm -- humanitarian aid and charity. but it is a matter of civilization. we live in a time of great change. what we have is the globalization of exploitation of one another, and therefore the globalization of poverty. we have to set ourselves a very important goal, and that is the globalization of wealth. the globalization of prosperity is not just a buzzword, or a kind of humanitarian treatment of those who are poorer than us, but it is also a purely economic and economic challenge. the world cannot long function if it is divided into a rich north and a poor south. and because of this division, we have one of the great effects today, which is called migration, and it's not just in north africa, in the middle east, and it's not just in europe, in the european union. this is a global process. we see it in south and east asia, we see it in america. if we do not get this situation under control, if we do not start treating it economically and economically, and not just humanely, if we do not create a global coalition for cohesion policy towards development, then of course we will not achieve these very important goals.
on behalf of the ecr group. these are the areas of belarus that were most affected by the chernobyl disaster. 23 percent of the country's land area is claimed and therefore belarus has for years pursued a very cautious energy policy, avoiding involvement in nuclear power plant projects. in 1999, it signed a memorandum on this matter. what caused the change in policy? geostrategic energy games conducted within the framework of the economic union by the russian federation. the ostrovets nuclear power plant is a belarusian-russian joint venture with a lot of russian funding, with russian technology, with little chinese funding. the power plant is located in the area just outside the lithuanian border, 50 km from the capital of the country. it's planted in areas that are seismically active, to be used to cool the water of wiliam. in addition, an air corridor is currently over the power plant, which will likely require significant changes in the direction of flights in that space. why am i saying this? i also say this because belarus has not fulfilled its obligations under the espoo convention and all the arguments i mentioned were not fully explained there. besides, there are also poles living in these areas my countrymen and they, as well as belarusians and lithuanians, protested.
mr. chairman, please! i would remind the commissioner that there are different types of reactor: more expensive, cheaper, safer in one way or another. i don't know what a reactor is that meets the highest standards, but if the commissioner knows what that means, there's only one editor in the world that meets the highest standards, because the others have to have lower ones. so i don't understand why belarus needs to have the highest standards for this reactor. but speaking generally about politics, i would like to remind you that we are also, and unfortunately my country poland, belarus, are being pushed into the arms of russia. for many years now, both the united states and the european union have been consistently attacking mr lukashenko and thus pushing him into the arms of russia. we've seen it ourselves. mr. lukashenko doesn't want to be a client of russia, he doesn't want russia to be the only ally of belarus. but it is we, by attacking mr lukashenko every time, who are pushing him - i repeat - into the arms of russia, and that is what i would like to draw attention to.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen of the house! this is not a general debate. this is a very specific debate. this is not the place to discuss the energy structure of europe, the desired energy structure of europe, how much nuclear energy is worth. the debate is about a very specific investment in belarus, near the border with the european union, in a sensitive place for both lithuania and poland. i am a little surprised by the commissioner's speech, which was overly technical, as if this was one of many investments that should be subject to a technical assessment only. it is worth listening to the voices of those people who, when the chernobyl disaster happened, lived on the wrong side of the iron curtain, who fought against the communist dictatorship and know what it means to have no respect for people, no respect for the environment. this investment, even in environmental terms, raises a lot of questions. but above all - and here i want to strongly support those voices that emphasize the russian factor - this is an investment financed, credited, and actually co-organized by russia. russia is subordinating energy goals to political goals. if the european union is pursuing a policy of the eastern neighbourhood, if the european union is aspiring to ensure the security of the entire old continent, to pursue something like a foreign policy, it cannot ignore the negative fact that this is an investment that is compatible with russia's political objectives.
mr. chairman, please! i'll make this very short. i don't care where belarus gets the money, or if it gets the money for a nuclear power plant. i don't care where he sells it, or if he sells it, or how much he sells the surplus energy for. i'm very interested in what happens to the waste, whether it has any idea, whether it's under proper control. what technology will be used as a result, and how safe will it really be? and i am very interested in lithuania's attitude to this investment, because it is the country that is currently most burdened by the possible risks of the operation of this power plant. i would like to emphasize that these elements, which are built into the security questions, must be considered as key. these elements, which concern the economy, constitute a sovereign part of the policy of belarus itself. it is important that the commission use all possible means available, both legal and otherwise, to properly control this investment.
i'm not going to let you do this. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa is a critical initiative that aims to strengthen food security in africa, which in turn could translate into saving millions of lives. as the european parliament, we should do our utmost to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this programme. i think one of them is the issue of support - which maria heubuch has already mentioned - for small and medium-sized farmers, agricultural holdings and food producers. the experience of development aid to africa shows that we should not, we must not, neglect the local dimension of development aid. in this case, support for family farming also has a positive impact on the well-being of the population. aid to individual farmers and family farms would improve the economic situation of the local population.
madam president! it's a good report. the result of working with general van orden is a report which is critical on the one hand, but on the other hand it is undoubtedly a good assessment of what happened in africa from the point of view of various missions, not just european ones. but, what's very important to me, is that the criticism is mainly about making these missions, in short, better, better functioning, so that actually the higher efficiency of this whole effort guarantees an improvement in the situation in africa. i would also like to emphasise that the rapporteur's criticism has been able to establish the right proportions for the proper involvement of europe in the mission in africa in general. i think that, in general, this report will be a source or a chance to make our missions, which we are paying for, more effective, more efficient and more important for africa.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i am pleased to be able to present today, almost a year after the project started, the final report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the report was initiated by mr dawid jackiewicz, currently a minister in the government of the republic of poland. i would like to highlight the significant contribution of the work of both the member and his colleagues and staff in the secretariat. the involvement of members from the various political groups, and in particular shadow members, was also important in the final shape of the report. i want to thank you all for your time and your commitment. i am aware that the subject matter of the report is extremely important to both the distributor and supplier communities, and its final text and message will be of great importance for the future of the relationship between the two groups. in the report we clearly stated that unfair trading practices are a problem that is acknowledged by all actors in the food supply chain and by national competition authorities. concrete examples of this problem in the uk and poland, among others, confirm the importance of this problem. the report was prepared in the course of numerous meetings with both international and national organisations. a number of suggestions and experiences were presented on the functioning of both voluntary and legislative solutions at national level. the commission and parliament have repeatedly drawn attention to the problem of unfair trading practices, including in the commission report of 29 january 2006 entitled 'the impact of the eu's trade policy on the eu's trade policy'. this was reflected in the numerous amendments submitted. we don't know what people think of him, but we do know that there are differences of opinion. for example, a review of the measures taken by member states to combat unfair trading practices confirms that voluntary initiatives are not currently sufficient. the report made recommendations supporting the need to work hard on solutions to improve supplier-supermarket relations, including on the issue of minimising the fear factor. we also included a call on the commission to take action to formulate new tools to strengthen action to counter unfair practices. almost all member states have introduced regulatory solutions to complement good practice. today we can already say that the experiences of other countries described in the context of the commission's report confirm that voluntary initiatives can only have a complementary effect. however, the current initiatives are fraught with imperfections, which we point out in the report. in recent times, most countries have introduced their own national regulations. member states should therefore be encouraged to exchange experience on regulatory solutions. you also have to ask if that's enough. i believe that the jointly developed contents of the report will be a significant step forward in the fight against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. we all want to see transparency and equality in the relations between the trading parties. i therefore hope that you will support the draft report in the vote during the current parliamentary session.
in writing. as a member from poland, i welcome the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, which are mainly caused by economic imbalances in trade relations, have a significant negative impact on the entire economy of the european union. the abuse of a stronger market position by large companies deprives smes of their ability to invest and thus blocks the development of this sector of the economy in the eu single market. the prevalence of unfair trading practices and their application to small food producers and retailers shows the weakness of the self-regulatory mechanisms that have been in place to restore market equilibrium. the report also highlights the 'fear factor' that forces small and medium-sized producers to submit to unfair practices for fear of being disrupted by a larger company. i therefore call for decisive action to be taken to eliminate completely unfair trading practices in the food supply chain in the european union.
madam president, i would like to raise three points in this context. first of all, i think we should see the measures in this directive as part of a bigger picture – as part of the entire eu agenda to fight tax dodging. i think that it is fair to admit that, over a very short period of time, a lot has been done to improve our tax systems. i also believe that today we better understand the need for sound cooperation in tax policies, both across europe and globally. secondly, i hope to see the council reach swift agreement on this directive because it is a much—needed fix. i also hope that, at the end of the day, the directive will be designed and implemented in accordance with global standards and in coordination with our partners. thirdly, i believe that there are other items on the agenda needed in order to achieve fair, efficient and simple taxation in the internal market. it is true that owners of shell companies benefit, often exploiting weak rules in offshore tax havens, but gaps also exist in our tax rules and can be exploited. tax systems in europe are in need of reform in order to fully close those loopholes allowing tax evasion and avoidance, eliminate special rules, and limit deductions, exemptions and credits. that would ensure a lower rate for everybody. this is important because i believe that we need a system that energises growth, a tax system that is built for growth, ensuring that fair rules are respected and that the economy works for everybody.
the question asked by raising the blue card. when juvenile crime is on the rise, we wonder what we did wrong. when crime among taxpayers increases, instead of thinking about how to make them pay, we may think that maybe we did something wrong. don't you think that fining a man who works - and the higher the fine, the better he works - is just plain stupid? will you vote to abolish income tax in the uk once you leave the eu?
mr. chairman, please! the directive on combating tax avoidance should be a priority for all of us, but we should aim for precise provisions that prevent different interpretations. i believe that the commission's original proposal was far from perfect and that subsequent work has only made the proposed solutions worse. the econ vote is probably a good one: 20 votes in favour, 15 against, 21 abstentions. i would also point out that tax policy is a matter for the member states and that this should be borne in mind in the further work, as further work on this directive, on this document, seems to be necessary.
madam president, the so-called anti-tax avoidance directive, which we are discussing today, is part of the anti-tax avoidance package, which should ensure effective corporate taxation in the eu. i fully support this initiative. unfortunately, the document adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in many instances goes too far in imposing excessive tax restrictions on european companies, and is more an anti—business instrument than anything else. the report is actually much worse than the commission’s original proposal. one of the most controversial issues is the general interest limitation rule, which in the draft report was set at the level of 10% of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda). in times when we strongly support efforts to encourage and promote investment in europe, this restrictive limit would clearly hamper large investment projects. that would fly in the face of everything we have been saying here in this chamber on the juncker plan. we should remember that interest payments are legitimate investment costs. i personally would be in favour of a much higher deductibility level of 30%, which is still within the range set by the oecd, but i am prepared, in the spirit of compromise, to support a deductibility level of 20%, as agreed in the committee. i understand that some member states would consider stricter thresholds, but this is perfectly possible as article 3 of the directive underlines the de minimis principle, which allows member states to be more ambitious in application of the directive. but there is no reason to apply these excessively restrictive limitations to all member states. there are a number of other anti-business measures in the report. i hope they will be softened or eliminated in the final vote. i would like to call on the parliament to focus on genuinely fighting tax avoidance, rather than yielding to populist sentiment and punishing european companies with excessive taxation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the loss of revenue due to aggressive tax planning by multinational companies - as has been repeatedly stated here - accounts for between 4 and 10% of corporate income tax revenues. in this context, the commission's drive to make companies pay taxes where they make profits deserves support. however, the report's proposals to call on the commission to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base or to set a minimum corporate tax rate of 15% should be considered as too far-reaching, since the shaping of income tax rules is, however, a competence of the member states. for example, in my country poland , in order to limit the outflow of untaxed profits abroad, a clause prohibiting tax avoidance has been introduced, which means that financial transactions unrelated to the taxpayer's real economic activity will be illegal. that should do it.
in writing. the search for tax optimisation is often part of the business. the problem arises when the path to tax optimisation leads by circumventing the applicable legal provisions. the recent panama papers revelations show just how far-fetched this offer can be. and how the differences between national tax systems promote tax avoidance. it should therefore come as no great surprise that the european commission estimates the annual losses of the eu due to tax fraud and tax avoidance at around eur 1 trillion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. and whether the directive should be a comprehensive set of broadly defined tax avoidance issues or a starting point for further reform of european tax systems. the final formulation of the directive also needs to take account of the fact that the measures adopted to combat tax avoidance do not reduce competitiveness on the european market.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the project aims to postpone the entry into force of directive 2014/65 of the european union of 3 january 2017 by 12 months, i.e. to 3 january 2018. in view of the complexity of the data that this solution requires to be collected and processed, the need to complete the necessary technical infrastructure and to ensure that the national and union stakeholders are able to complete their commitments, it is necessary to postpone this deadline by 12 months. the infrastructure deployment process consists of five stages: business requirements, followed by specification, development, testing and deployment. the legal situation will be known by july this year. in view of the correct implementation of the safeguard of this scheme, it is appropriate to extend the deadline.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the world's first international public health treaty. this treaty was the result of four years of negotiation and discussion among members of the world health organization. by 2004, 180 parties (including the european community) had signed the convention, with the provisions formally entering into force in february 2005. the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of smoking and inhaling tobacco smoke. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is based on article 15 of the fctc and was adopted by the conference of the parties on 12 november 2012 in seoul. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol has so far been ratified by 9 of the 40 parties required for its entry into force. this is a mixed agreement ratification by the eu and its 28 member states will add 29 parties to the fctc protocol. i think the legislative resolution is substantive and correct. i agree with the rapporteur that ratification of the fctc will bring benefits to public health and will support the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime. the european parliament should give its consent to such ratification. in light of the above, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, with the exception of the provisions falling within the scope of title v of part three of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling of cigarettes, is a major public health threat. in addition, access by consumers to illicit and therefore cheaper tobacco products weakens tobacco control policies and causes huge losses to eu revenues from unpaid taxes and duties. the ratification of the fctc protocol will, in my view, bring public health benefits and support the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is a serious problem for the european union. this procedure not only causes huge losses to the state budget due to unpaid duties and taxes, but also serves to finance other areas of organized crime, such as drug and addiction trafficking, prostitution and pimping. there are suspicions that recently also smuggling of immigrants and even terrorism. in addition to the social and criminal pathologies, the health effects of illicit tobacco use are equally important. they are not subject to any standards of hygiene or sanitation, let alone quality. the protocol to the who convention provides in particular for the establishment of a worldwide system for the identification and traceability of tobacco products. the rules cover licensing, record keeping requirements, regulation of online sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it also defines offences and liability and charges for seizure of goods, as well as handling of confiscated products. it also aims to enhance international cooperation, including mutual administrative assistance in customs matters. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to the eu's accession to the international protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. it is a major global initiative to combat the illicit trade in cigarettes by improving the security of the tobacco supply chain.
in writing. ‒ uniform technical requirements for wheeled vehicles: unece convention. at the meeting of the un economic commission for europe in june 2016, the eu has to present its position on the third review of the agreement on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be used in wheeled vehicles. common technical requirements, such as those contained in the unece framework regulations for the automotive and related sectors, contribute to reducing development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures and to promoting a transparent, efficient and pro-competitive business environment. in view of the foregoing considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting version 3 of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be used on wheeled vehicles and the mutual recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. the automotive industry and related industries are one of the main sectors of the european union's economy. international regulatory cooperation is an opportunity to introduce transparent, effective regulations for the automotive and related sectors. this will ensure the development of this sector of the economy and ensure the highest levels of protection of the health and safety of consumers.
in writing. ‒ the eu must present its position on the third review of the agreement on the adoption of uniform technical requirements for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be used in wheeled vehicles to the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). taking into account that common technical requirements such as those contained in the unece framework regulations for the automotive and related sectors contribute to reducing development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures and to promoting a transparent, efficient and pro-competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection, i am in favour of the ep's consent to the conclusion of this agreement. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ given the increasing interconnectedness of global markets (up to 40% of european industrial products are manufactured from products imported from raw material suppliers) and the fact that global production is increasingly taking place within global value chains, the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperation on regulatory issues are essential to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the automotive industry and related industries are one of the main sectors of the european union's economy. it is also important for industries upstream and downstream. moreover, the automotive industry is a well-integrated value chain covering almost all member states. international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent and efficient business environment by developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. in addition, regulatory coherence and transparency are essential for the development and implementation of effective, cost-effective and more compatible rules.
in writing. ‒ the efforts to harmonise the rules in the automotive industry, leading to more compatible regulations, should be commended. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and generates 4% of eu gdp. the further development of the automotive market is in the interest of the european union as a whole. i support the efforts to increase the competitiveness of the european automotive industry and that is why i voted in favour of adopting uniform technical requirements.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. certain provisions of the agreement have been applied (in accordance with article 330) between the eu and peru since 1 march 2013 and between the eu and colombia since 1 august 2013. the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution on 11 december 2012 expressing its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. the consent of the european parliament to this council decision is binding. seeing no negative consequences, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was signed on 26 june 2012. it concerns the liberalisation of rules on trade in agricultural products, industrial products and services. following the admission of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013, the accession of that country to the abovementioned trade agreement is a natural process and i have therefore agreed to the drafting of an additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the agreement of 22 june 2012.
in writing. ‒ the decision to apply enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of international couples' property (covering both matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships) is a purely procedural decision. both of the above-mentioned council regulations concern jurisdiction and the law applicable. they exclude matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of the marriage, as well as maintenance obligations and the inheritance of property of a deceased spouse. the rapporteur proposes that parliament give its consent to enhanced cooperation in this area. the main controversy with this proposal is that the decision authorising enhanced cooperation is a precedent. for the first time, it obliges member states to be bound by two instruments simultaneously - one on civil partnerships and the other on marriage. this solution also raises concerns in the context of article 4 (2) teu, which guarantees member states respect for their national identities, in this particular case in the definition of the institution of family law. in addition, in order to benefit their citizens from the application of the matrimonial property regulation, states will also be obliged to be bound by the regulation on the property consequences of partnerships. because of the controversy surrounding this regulation, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i have improved the long-awaited council recommendation on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation on matrimonial property regimes and registered partnerships (08112/2016 - c8-0184/2016 - 2016/0061 (nle)). the package has been in the works for several years and aims to harmonise the legal rules on matrimonial property regimes. it lays down the procedure to be followed in the event of a conflict of property laws between member states and lays down the rules for the recognition and enforcement of judgments, court settlements and authentic instruments in those matters. i very much regret that poland is not in the broad coalition of countries that have agreed to joint solutions. the government's statement of 11 march 2016 explains that the reason for non-cooperation is that the regulation also applies to same-sex marriages and partnerships. although the regulation does not apply in this passage to countries that do not have legislation for same-sex marriage/partnerships, the polish government vetoed it in 2015, thereby preventing thousands of poles who have decided to end their international marriages from enjoying the benefits of enhanced cooperation between eu countries in this area.
in writing. ‒ the decision to apply enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property regimes of international couples covers both matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships. the regulations concern the recognition and enforcement of judgments on matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships and apply to cross-border cases. they do not cover matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of the marriage, maintenance obligations and succession. the main controversy with this proposal is that for the first time it commits the member states to be bound by two instruments simultaneously - one on partnerships and the other on marriage. a number of member states still do not have a partnership institution (cyprus, bulgaria, romania, slovakia, poland, lithuania, latvia) and, in order to have the effect of the matrimonial property regulation, they must accede to both regulations implementing enhanced cooperation and agree to recognise the effects of a partnership institution which they do not recognise under their domestic law and which may be considered contrary to their public policy in the field of private international law and, in the field of domestic law, to the fundamental principles of their legal system, including constitutional status. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the modern world is a world of mobile people. we are born elsewhere, we study elsewhere, we live and work elsewhere. it is therefore not surprising that mixed-nationality unions, couples living in a member state of which they are not nationals, having assets in different member states or divorcing or dying in a country other than their country of origin are becoming more common. the main problem for international couples is that it is very difficult to know which courts have jurisdiction and which law applies to the personal situation and assets of the couple. it is therefore necessary to ensure equal treatment of couples throughout the european union. i believe that the necessary regulations should be put in place as soon as possible to ensure this, and i therefore welcome the initiative to establish enhanced cooperation between the 17 member states in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes and jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships. i also hope that other eu countries, including poland, will join the group of countries participating in this initiative in the near future so that all eu citizens can benefit from these facilities.
in writing. ‒ although the enhanced cooperation instrument is not binding on all member states, there is a risk that it will have negative consequences for areas reserved for member states, such as family law or the definition of marriage. i couldn't support a document that posed such a threat, and i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the world's first international public health treaty. this treaty was the result of four years of negotiation and discussion among members of the world health organization. by 2004, 180 parties (including the european community) had signed the convention, with the provisions formally entering into force in february 2005. the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of smoking and inhaling tobacco smoke. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is based on article 15 of the fctc and was adopted by the conference of the parties on 12 november 2012 in seoul. the eu signed the fctc protocol on 20 december 2013. the protocol has so far been ratified by 9 of the 40 parties required for its entry into force. this is a mixed agreement - ratification by the eu and its 28 member states will add 29 parties to the fctc protocol. i think the legislative resolution is substantive and correct. i agree with the rapporteur that ratification of the fctc will bring benefits to public health and will support the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime. the european parliament should give its consent to such ratification. in light of the above, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control shows that the eu is not doing enough. the protocol was signed by the eu on 20 december 2013 and there is no reason to oppose the provisions of the convention. its main objective is to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco, which poses health risks. another reason for adopting the recommendation is the tightness of the tax system. i voted in favour of action to curb harmful practices that undermine public order and i voted in favour of adopting the convention.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with article 93 of directive 2014/65/eu, member states should apply measures implementing that directive from 3 january 2017. however, due to the complexity of the data that needs to be collected and processed for the new framework to work, in particular for transaction reporting, transparency calculation and position reporting in relation to commodity derivatives, stakeholders such as trading venues, esma and ncas are not able to ensure that the necessary data collection infrastructure will be established and operational within a specified timeframe. in light of those exceptional circumstances and in order to allow esma, ncas and interested parties to complete their obligations, the deadline by which member states were to apply the measures implementing directive 2014/65/eu and the deadline for repealing directive 2004/39/ec should be postponed by 12 months, i.e. until 3 january 2018. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, it is necessary to extend that deferral to the application of the whole framework, including all delegated and implementing acts. i fully agree with the points made, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the facilitation of securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories with regard to certain dates. the postponement of the date of application of regulation 600/2014 until 3 january 2018, i.e. by 12 months, is necessary to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible disruptions in the financial market.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis that began in 2007 has shown the ineffective control of the financial sector. the lack of proper regulation and regulations has caused disruption in the financial market. therefore, rules should be introduced to effectively limit the possibility of a similar situation occurring in the future. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for an amendment to the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu.
in writing. ‒ the new framework established by regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu requires trading venues and regularly trading exchanges to provide competent authorities with financial instrument reference data that describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument covered by this directive. new infrastructure is being developed to collect data in an efficient and harmonised manner. the process of deploying a data infrastructure consists of five stages: business requirements, specifications, development, testing and deployment. esma estimates that these stages should be completed by january 2018, provided that the legal situation on the final requirements resulting from the relevant regulatory technical standards is clear by june 2016 at the latest. in light of these exceptional circumstances and in order to allow esma, ncas and interested parties to complete the implementation of the commitments, the date of application of regulation 600/2014 should be postponed by 12 months, i.e. until 3 january 2018. i consider that, in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market distortions, it is necessary to extend that deferral to the application of the whole framework, including all delegated and implementing acts. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis that began in 2007 showed the ineffective control of the financial sector. the lack of proper regulation and regulations has caused a huge disruption in the financial markets. therefore, rules should be introduced to effectively limit the possibility of a similar situation occurring in the future. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for an amendment to the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu.
in writing. ‒ mr rimantas šadžius has been nominated by the lithuanian government as a candidate for the court of auditors. he graduated from the faculty of law of the university of vilnius and from the faculty of chemistry of the moscow university. he was deputy minister of social affairs and labour (2003-2004), deputy minister in the ministry of health of the republic of lithuania, december (2004-2006), deputy minister in the ministry of finance of the republic of lithuania (2006-2007). currently (as of 13 december 2012) he is the minister of finance of the republic of lithuania (this position is held for the second time; the first time in 2007-2008). mr šadžius has very good references and presented his candidacy well during the cont commission hearing on 23 may. the members of the cont committee highlighted, among other things, his linguistic competence - mr šadžius is fluent in four languages (english, russian, polish and german). i personally supported the lithuanian candidate for the eto.
in writing. ‒ mr rimantas šadžius, who has held several posts in the government of the republic of lithuania, has shown himself to be a concrete and experienced politician. i am convinced that his candidacy for the court of auditors of the eu will strengthen this institution and improve its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ through policy coherence for development, the eu seeks to take development objectives into account in all its policies that could have an impact on developing countries. this aims to minimise contradictions and build synergies between the different eu policies and to make development cooperation more effective for the benefit of developing countries. the european commission monitors progress in cohesion policy for development in the eu and its member states on the basis of its biennial report on the cdp. the latest report (published in august 2015) covers both cross-cutting and thematic issues and presents examples of progress in the cfp across different policy areas. the european parliament maintained its support for the pcd. the report makes concrete proposals to strengthen political engagement in practice. the report is playing an increasingly important role in raising awareness of the cfp in certain policy initiatives. i therefore support the approximation of the pcd and its improved version in the light of the recently adopted sustainable development goals, but at the same time i stress that we must be careful that the new regulation does not become an additional regulatory tool and a burden for citizens and businesses. with that in mind, i have decided to abstain in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr preda on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development. i believe that this report touches on one of the most crucial issues in development policy, because it is extremely important that our policy action be consistent with the objectives we have set ourselves. i am convinced that this is a necessary condition for ensuring sustainable development. i also think that the report rightly identifies the priority areas of development policy, particularly with regard to migration. development policy is undoubtedly one of the key tools for tackling the migration crisis and i agree with the rapporteur that eu migration policy must be consistent with poverty reduction policies and must effectively and efficiently support economic, political and social development in partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against paragraph 30 of the report on policy coherence for development, because it provides for the financing of development aid from carbon taxes and levies on the exploitation of natural resources. understanding the need to promote clean environment and alternative energy sources and to seek new sources of financing for the necessary development aid, it is unacceptable to place an excessive burden on eu countries in this regard, as this puts european countries in a low competitive position vis-à-vis economies that do not have such regulations and burdens or have them at a lower level. paragraph 30 is particularly unfavourable for poland, which bases its energy policy on coal and its extraction from domestic resources. therefore, the proposals contained in paragraph 30, neutral for countries using nuclear energy and sounding pro-environmental, the polish delegation always rejects.
in writing. ‒ through policy coherence for development, the eu seeks to take development objectives into account in all its policies that could have an impact on developing countries. this aims to minimise contradictions and build synergies between the different eu policies and to make development cooperation more effective for the benefit of developing countries. the european commission monitors progress in cohesion policy for development in the eu and its member states on the basis of its biennial report on the cdp. the latest report (published in august 2015) covers both cross-cutting and thematic issues from 2013-15 and presents examples of progress in the cfp across different policy areas. however, careful attention should be paid to ensuring that the new provision does not become an additional regulatory tool and burden for citizens and businesses. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to attract private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. it seeks to address the critical funding gap for achieving global food security through partnerships with the private sector, g8 countries and other international donors. it also aims to create a business-friendly environment in the alliance countries through systemic reforms in infrastructure, taxation, good governance, land and trade policies. i believe that it is of paramount importance to boost investment in african agriculture, as well as to encourage private investment and innovation in this sector. the report stresses that action to promote agricultural investment in africa should in particular support the development of local economies, including small-scale family farmers. in addition, the report calls on african governments to invest in local food systems to stimulate rural economies, ensure social safety nets and labour rights, and improve arrangements for democratic control of access to resources. in view of the contents of the report, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ensuring food security is a major challenge for european agriculture. as a continent well developed and self-sufficient, we should be responsible for the third world, where development is slower and the conditions for it are much more difficult. this human solidarity should determine the support for those who are unable to cope on their own. africa is a particularly challenging region because of its climate, limited water resources and education. however, the work done so far in this area is not satisfactory. it's good that there are improvements in the legal or tax systems of these countries, but the most important thing is to work at the bottom, and that's what's missing. the biggest beneficiaries should be small producers, not the business tycoons who are currently getting the most relief. the current arrangements facilitate land grabbing, marginalise small producers, make it harder for women to enter the labour market and promote unsustainable farming. the european union must play a key role in the process of genuinely supporting family farms and farms, in particular by creating sound management structures that guarantee a fair distribution of profits and losses between the parties.
in writing. ‒ in the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition, which i supported, i voted against paragraph 72 which calls on g8 countries not to support gmo crops in africa. recognizing the controversy surrounding the use of gmos in agriculture and the need for control and monitoring and the strict rules that such crops should be subject to, i believe that africa is one of the places on earth where gmos are simply a necessity. unlike europe, whose fertile soils and climate give us a choice, africa - afflicted by drought, high soil salinity, diversity and pest abundance - has very little agricultural production capacity without gmos. added to this is the population explosion, with africa's growing population adding to the need for effective solutions to feed its population. i am opposed to the automatic transfer of european philosophies and solutions to continents where different climatic, natural, political and cultural conditions determine different solutions. in the eu, the use of gmos is a matter of choice. in africa, the use of gmos is the only effective means of fighting hunger that is currently available. the alternative of humanitarian aid is blocking africa's development, exploiting its own potential, and is a dead end and an example of the world's condescending treatment of western countries that should be able to find their own path to development.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to attract private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. it seeks to address the severe funding gap in the pursuit of global food security through cooperation with the private sector, g8 countries and other international donors. it also aims to create a business-friendly environment in the alliance countries through systemic reforms in infrastructure, taxation, good governance, land and trade policies. the key issue is to boost investment in african agriculture, as well as to support private investment and stimulate innovation in the sector. the focus on granting land titles alone often results in insecurity for small food producers and indigenous peoples. large public-private partnerships will give large agricultural companies a dominant position in african agriculture, which will help to push local businesses out. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn), launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8, is to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security in sub-saharan africa. the countries involved were required to adopt a national cooperation framework setting out the political commitments and identifying the companies involved in the project. in its resolution, the european parliament rightly stresses that action to promote agricultural investment in africa should be linked and support the development of local economies, including small farms and family farming. it is necessary to promote inclusive growth, agriculture that supports small farmers, and reducing poverty, hunger and malnutrition. the new alliance for food security and nutrition is a remarkable initiative that promotes public-private partnership and engages both sides both african countries and the g8 on a mutually beneficial basis. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ a new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8. as a large public-private partnership, it was intended to increase the share of private investment in the agricultural sector, inter alia, to improve food security. unfortunately, consultation with small farmers was marginal, even though they should be the ultimate beneficiaries of the new alliance. as a result, the new alliance has been widely criticised, including by civil society. because of the split, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i believe that action should be taken to minimise the occurrence of unfair commercial practices in the food sector. the european union should be responsible for providing transparent rules that create an appropriate level of cooperation between suppliers, food producers and distributors. a situation in which there is an imbalance between income and input in the food supply chain should be avoided. serious abuses in the sale of products below their cost of production are a threat to the functioning of a sustainable trade policy in the european union. it is important to be aware that the retail sale of a very large number of goods and the access to the points of sale by suppliers are under constant supermarket control. i am in favour of new legislation which should help to stop unfair practices which in fact lead to excessive costs and too low revenues generated by less competitive firms.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the activities of the ifrs foundation, the efrag and the iorp and raises key questions about the process of adopting ifrs financial reporting standards into european law. the eu is a major contributor to the funding of these organisations. in previous reports, the ep has expressed concern about the level of european involvement and the operation of certain mechanisms of the foundation and the efrag. moreover, the report is based on a broad consensus among the political groups. stresses that the process for adopting ifrss must be in line with the criteria set out in the ifr regulation; this requires, in particular, that the financial statements be kept in a true, fair and transparent manner. further aspects of the report deal with the responsibility of the international accounting standards board. given the amendments to the report, which state, inter alia, that the implementation of ifrss must not delay or lead to a leveling or distortion of competition between market participants, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of international accounting standards is essential to increase competition and remove barriers to investment on a global scale. accounting standards are very important for the further development of the single capital market in the european union. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ geoffrey van orden's report on the european union's engagement in un and african union peacekeeping missions analyses the added value of eu engagement in missions dealing with complex and multifaceted challenges in conflict areas and failed states. in his report, mr van orden notes the increasing trend of sending numerous un-approved missions to the same areas, each involving different regional entities and organisations. the rapporteur believes that eu involvement should focus on areas where it is possible to provide added value, such as training, equipment supply and logistical support. the rapporteur believes that the problem is not money itself but rather how it is spent and how other sources are used. while i support the eu working with international partners to ensure lasting stability and lasting security and peace in conflict areas, the key question remains what added value, if any, eu involvement brings to peace operations organised by local actors or the un. i believe that the report raises very important issues concerning these peace operations and the consequences of involvement in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ eu, un and african union peacekeeping missions are conducted in increasingly complex environments and require a comprehensive approach. in addition to diplomatic and development cooperation, there is also a need for in-depth security awareness, intelligence sharing and information sharing. some eu member states have long been involved in peacekeeping operations on the african continent, not only through un and au missions but also under the eu's common security and defence policy. these actions are intended to help stabilise countries in crisis. however, the legitimacy of the mission in the eyes of the people is crucial to its success, and where possible, military forces should be drawn primarily from african union countries. it should also be stressed that the main problem with the success of peace operations is very often not, as is commonly believed, the lack of funds, but their misuse. regular and thorough reviews of the use of eu funds for peace-keeping operations in africa are therefore necessary to help reduce corruption, which is widespread on the continent.
in writing. ‒ peace operations are designed to stabilise a conflict area. the international community, on the basis of its authority, is engaged in solving it. the eu, which wants to be an active player in world politics, cannot shirk its responsibility for international security, which is particularly important in african countries. in view of the prospect of these operations achieving their objectives, i have voted to adopt the report.
in writing. ‒ africa is one of the greatest sources of instability in the modern world. the close proximity of this continent means that europe must be aware of and actively involved in combating emerging threats. cooperation with our african partners in the fields of training, logistical support and information exchange should be extended, and the involvement of european military capabilities on the african continent increased. i fully agree with the conclusion of this report that border management, and in particular efforts to ensure its integrity, should be of particular concern to us. this is the only effective way to stop the two biggest problems facing the eu today: international islamic terrorism and the uncontrolled flow of migrants. but we must not forget that the eu is only part of a global security system in which it does not play a leading role. the potential of the un, nato and the united states is the most important element of peacekeeping operations on the african continent. the eu member states, with their very good political orientation in this extremely complex area, should provide a valuable pool of expertise, strengthen their commitment to training local security forces, provide technical resources and offer the highest quality military equipment and equipment. the csdp's engagement in africa so far shows that the eu can and should be part of an international coalition to build lasting peace on the continent.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to highlight the problem of unfair trading practices and by highlighting the initiatives that have already been taken at national or european level to consider possible further possibilities or to strengthen existing initiatives aimed at addressing the problem of unfair trading practices in the european internal market. in july 2014, the european commission published a communication to encourage member states to look at ways to increase the protection of small food producers and retailers against unfair trading practices that often occur in business relationships where market forces are differentiated. unfair commercial practices are generally defined as practices which are grossly contrary to good commercial practice and contrary to the principle of good faith and fair dealing. the report also draws attention to the so-called 'fear factor', which often prevents a weaker party from taking any legal action for fear of termination of the commercial relationship by the stronger party. the report recalls that many countries have recognised the harmful nature of unfair trading practices and have taken regulatory initiatives. however, the rules vary widely across the eu, also because of the scale of the phenomenon. i believe that this report can bring about many positive changes in the member states in terms of trade and market economy. with that in mind, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ support for food producers is essential to ensure that consumers have good quality food. they do the most to keep the produce fresh and healthy. in particular, the smallest producers are often the suppliers of the best products, because small production allows them to take care of the smallest details of the whole process. we should therefore encourage such entrepreneurship and make sure that no one exploits economic inequalities in the market for their own benefit. such unfair practices, which eliminate the smallest producers, can deprive consumers of local, traditional products and lead to the use of 'moloch food products'. the existing regulations have proved ineffective. it is necessary to define such practices precisely and to create clear tools to combat them effectively at member state level. effective enforcement of such regulations by means of penalties or sanctions is necessary for the new law to be effective.
in writing. ‒ today we adopted a report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, including the amendments i tabled on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, calling on the european commission to present the appropriate legal framework to ensure a fairer distribution of income in the food chain. there is no doubt that farmers are currently the worst off in the 'crop to table' chain, partly as a result of their low bargaining power in negotiations with traders or processors, which is the result of their low level of organisation on the one hand and the use of unfair practices by other operators on the other. there are examples of contracts in which farmers are given dozens of conditions to fulfil at a very low price for the product. there are also significant delays in payments to farmers, which cause serious difficulties for the financial liquidity of the holdings. nor do these practices serve consumers, who are receiving an increasingly less diversified offer. the crisis in agriculture and the fall in farm incomes make the need to tackle this problem even more urgent, and i hope that the commission will quickly propose appropriate solutions to improve the situation of our farmers.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices have a negative impact not only on small and medium-sized enterprises by depriving them of the opportunity to invest in innovation and thus develop their activities in the common market but also on the eu economy as a whole. disproportions and inequalities are particularly evident in the food supply chain and it is therefore necessary to look for ways to increase the protection of particularly small food producers and retailers against unfair trading practices, which are often used by the largest players in the market. many member states have already taken regulatory action to combat them. moreover, stakeholders themselves have developed a number of good self-regulatory principles and frameworks for their implementation, and are successfully developing less formal and widespread dispute resolution and redress mechanisms. the good practice guidelines and the list of examples of fair and unfair practices in the food supply chain should therefore be extended and strongly enforced. i fear that the creation of regulation at eu level will be another proof that the european union is overregulated, which will provide its critics with additional ammunition. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ supporting small and local food producers is key to developing healthy trade. their protection against unfair trading practices, which often occur in a differentiated market force, should be enhanced. the dominance of large food producers can have a negative impact on the eu economy as a whole, hampering the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the draft report can contribute to the fight against unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ food producers face many problems in the single market, including abuse by consumers of their products. in particular, large retail chains, because of their dominant position, engage in practices that may be considered contrary to eu rules. unfortunately, not all of them are explicitly described in the law, which is why it is so often difficult for injured parties to pursue their claims. the most commonly reported abuses include: problems in timely payment of receivables, arbitrariness in the formulation and interpretation of contracts with suppliers, passing on to suppliers the costs of product promotion in stores, the costs of price reductions, and the costs of transporting and storing products. all these practices, and many other similar unfair practices, put producers at a great disadvantage and deprive them of a large part of their meager income. this is a major challenge, and sometimes a threat to their business, especially for polish farmers and food processing companies. i agree with the conclusions and proposals for solutions set out in the report of mr poslas and mr česák. the european union should undoubtedly pay more attention to protecting the rights of the weaker operators who are discriminated against and exploited in the food supply chain. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ reduced land availability, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand, and unprecedented pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on european raw material producers. to meet these challenges, the eu should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture. attention should be paid to the need to develop agricultural technologies in all types of agriculture conventional, organic and other. the report stressed that the benefits of technological innovation must be available to all farmers and that finding solutions for small-scale farming in rural communities is as important as finding solutions to the problems faced by many large-scale farmers. the report highlights the importance of precision farming, which can rationalise the use of machinery and reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers and water. it also stressed the importance of innovative plant and animal breeding and called on the commission to publish the final report of the working group on new techniques. i believe that creating a risk-based and innovation-friendly regulatory environment, based on scientific evidence, and ensuring that eu rules do not become an obstacle to innovation, is crucial for sustainable and competitive eu agricultural production on the world market. however, due to the doubts that have arisen about the content of the document, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union, because it contains many inaccuracies and shortcomings. promoting sustainable development and innovation in agriculture, as well as the development of agricultural technologies, is of course important and can have a significant impact on the further development of agriculture. however, in this particular report, many key issues were left unanswered or simply omitted. the concept of 'new technologies' has not been properly analysed and it is therefore not known what these technologies would be and what agricultural sectors they might serve. these 'technologies' have not been studied for agricultural safety and environmental protection, and the use of any 'technology' without adequate research and analysis of its impact on agricultural production and the environment can be tragic and irreversible. as a member of the european parliament, i could not therefore support the vote on an incomplete report whose legal, social and economic implications had not been fully analysed.
in writing. ‒ the coming decades will present a major challenge for agriculture. the world's growing population, its aging population, environmental degradation, and the scarcity of fresh water are all issues that will soon be faced. the answer to these challenges is new production techniques, innovative solutions that allow for intensive, modern and sustainable production. a good sign is the positive feedback on genetic, mechanical and digital technologies, which now appear to be the tools that can provide the answers to the challenges ahead. innovative technologies will help both small and large farms, organic and conventional, to achieve sustainable development and to provide food to needy consumers outside europe. this requires adequate funding for research into new solutions, but also equal access to research for all interested parties, whether small farmers or large farms.
in writing. ‒ reduced land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand, and unprecedented pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on european raw material producers and the environment. to meet these challenges, the eu should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, but european agriculture still lags behind many of the union's international competitors. the rapporteur draws attention to the need for the development of agricultural technologies in all types of agriculture conventional, organic and other and calls for greater access to research and its commercialisation, which would allow farmers to benefit from the opportunities offered by new technologies and innovation. the report stressed that the benefits of technological innovation must be available to all farmers and that finding solutions for small-scale farming in rural communities is as important as finding solutions to the problems faced by many large-scale farmers. the rapporteur draws attention to the importance of precision agriculture, which can bring environmental benefits, rationalise the use of machinery and reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers and water. it also stressed the importance of innovative plant and animal breeding using proven techniques and called on the commission to publish the final report of the working group on new techniques. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption by parliament of the report by our colleague from the committee on agriculture, anthei mcintyre. the world's population is growing steadily - forecasts say we'll be close to 10 billion in 2050 - and at the same time, the amount of arable land on earth is running out, and recently, it's been shrinking due to increasing pollution, deforestation, desertification and intensive urbanization. other challenges include increasing water scarcity, the threat of plant and animal disease outbreaks, and the unpredictable effects of climate change. action is therefore needed to develop more sustainable agriculture based on respect for the environment and local communities. one solution is precision farming, which, among other things, has the potential to significantly reduce the use of pesticides. there is no doubt that to meet the challenges of the near future in agriculture, major changes, if not a revolution, must take place, and efforts must be made to ensure that europe is at the forefront of these changes. that's why this report is so important. at the same time, we must bear in mind that innovative technological solutions are inherently costly, which can be a problem for most of the family farms that dominate europe. they must therefore be accompanied by appropriate actions and financial support to ensure that innovation is widely available to all farmers.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world's population is expected to reach 9.7 billion, which means that farmers will have to produce food for an additional 2.4 billion people. it is estimated that global food production will have to increase by 60 to 110%. meeting the challenge of ensuring food security by increasing production without exacerbating existing environmental problems is a very difficult task. innovation in agricultural technology is key to tackling some of the biggest challenges facing agriculture today, in view of climate change, the increase in food demand due to the world's growing population, and environmental threats. the european parliament's report rightly points to the need to encourage innovative research and support, for example, precision agriculture, genetic diversity, soil management, water management and plant protection measures. the document also encourages cooperation between scientists and farmers and stresses the need to ensure appropriate knowledge transfer to end-users. i think that the solutions proposed in the european parliament's report are appropriate, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector is facing the demands of a rapidly growing population. it is under pressure from a variety of challenges, including climate change and evolving socio-economic dynamics. european agriculture must therefore produce enough food, while respecting the environment, consumer safety and supporting farmers. the potential for innovation in agriculture is not fully realised and the european regulatory framework is not adapted to keep pace with the pace of progress. i believe that there are key challenges to be addressed in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture. the eu could make better use of the innovative power of agriculture, while ensuring that no legislative act stifles competition. farmers should be given more freedom to be entrepreneurial and innovative. for example, in precision agriculture, you can limit the amount of plant protection products you need, or the amount of fertilizer you need, or even the amount of water you need. agricultural technology will predict where crop pests are expected to be or whether they will attack at a specific location in the crop fields. i fully agree with the report's view that agriculture is part of the solution - not part of the problem - to tackle major challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution and animal welfare. i strongly support the report, and i will sign off on all the compromise amendments.
in writing. ‒ new social structures, demographic changes mean that food producers are constantly looking for new solutions to meet the expectations of the food market. not only are consumers getting older, but their food preferences are changing as well. all these challenges need to be addressed by farmers and processors. it is not enough to increase current production. new solutions must be sought that not only meet the increased demand for food in the future, but also are sustainable enough not to cause further environmental degradation. there is a great need for greater integration of agriculture with other sectors of the economy, such as the chemical, health and technology sectors, in order to make more effective use of knowledge, innovative innovation and interaction. this will create new jobs in the agri-food sector and inspire the production of more diversified products or services. meeting the growing and diverse needs of european and global consumers will ensure that european agriculture remains relevant and continues to set the standard for high-quality production.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector today faces demand from a rapidly growing population and is under pressure from a variety of challenges, including climate change and evolving socio-economic dynamics. european agriculture must therefore produce enough food, while respecting the environment, consumer safety and supporting farmers. the potential for innovation in agriculture is not fully realised and the european regulatory framework is not adapted to keep pace with the pace of progress. key challenges need to be addressed to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture. the eu could make better use of the innovative power of agriculture, while ensuring that no legislative act stifles competition. farmers should be given more freedom to be entrepreneurial and innovative. for example, in precision agriculture, you can limit the amount of plant protection products you need, or the amount of fertilizer you need, or even the amount of water you need. agricultural technology will predict where crop pests are expected to be or whether they will attack at a specific location in the crop fields. i agree with the view expressed in the report that agriculture is part of the solution - not part of the problem - when it comes to tackling major challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution and animal welfare. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ european agricultural policy must stop supporting the outdated status quo and focus on innovation. we must do everything we can to increase the quantity of high-quality agricultural products, ensuring food security for all, while effectively tackling climate change. agriculture, like other sectors of the economy, now needs to unlock its innovation potential and the member states and the union should be involved in this process. the european parliament's report has rightly outlined the current obstacles and the relatively small scale of innovation in agriculture. this is due to a variety of obstacles, including insufficient knowledge transfer to farmers by researchers, high initial costs for the purchase of the necessary machinery, in particular for small farmers, and the fact that the rules are not always adapted to the specific needs of the agricultural sector. in addition, it is also worth considering the creation of new financing opportunities for farmers in cooperation with the european investment bank and the further development of existing risk management tools.
the problem is not that we're being flooded with immigrants, it's that we're being flooded with the wrong immigrants. they don't want to work at bayerische motorwerke or aldi. they were promised big benefits, and they want big benefits. i've already identified them once, and it cost me 3,000 euros, but a congolese diplomat said that europe is being flooded by african shampoo. well, we may be proud to have liberated a part of africa from this bog, but it is our duty to teach these people to reason. well, nothing teaches the mind like hunger. we need to stop paying them benefits and just make them work. and since the best teacher is an example, we have to set an example and stop paying benefits to ourselves, because we're also demoralizing our own people. as you know, socialism is a system in which heroic struggles are overcome that are unknown in any other system. and i'm hearing that all the time, everybody in this room is trying to do that. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i don't really understand what it is and how it relates to the exploitation of africa. america has been exploited and is doing very well. i am simply referring to the opinion of a congolese diplomat from a country that knows something about emigration from africa. but i do know that when you pay people to do things they don't do, you demoralize them. all welfare payments must be eliminated. people have to live off work, not on benefits.
mr president, in my speech the english word ‘shit’ was used. it was not my word. in polish it was ‘szambo’, which in english is ‘cesspool’ or something like that, and the word in german was ‘abschaum’ which in english means ‘scum’, not ‘shit’. so please, i am not responsible for the translation.
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you not think that education is an essential means of integration for refugees both those fleeing war and those from labour migration to participate fully in society?
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. and i do agree with you and your colleagues that skills and qualifications are extremely important. that is why this commission initiative is so important to us all. i just wanted to point out that we can't just focus on the problem of skills shortages, on the supply of skills, and ignore the issues of how to increase the demand for skills, for skills, for their proper use. we know that there is a gap between qualifications and market needs and i understand that the commission's initiative is aimed at reducing this gap. but according to a 2015 report by the european centre for vocational training, 25% of workers are too highly skilled for their jobs, and 27% of workers are too highly skilled for their current jobs to offer them opportunities for further development. this is also a problem which the commission should address in its initiative.
mr. chairman, please! i join in the congratulations to the commissioner. but when it comes to skills, we can't escape the question of what is the place and the role of education in our societies. first, the quality of the education system should be measured not by the level of preparation for exams, but by the level of preparation for life. secondly, in addition to cognitive skills, transversal skills are necessary, but also social and psychological skills. thirdly, we must not only involve entrepreneurs and other actors in the training process, but also require them to be very involved in absorbing the young people who are prepared and creating jobs. fourthly, there is a need for a change in the methods and modalities of education, also much more than the recognition of non-formal education. and fifth and lastly, we need to make greater use of existing eu instruments, such as erasmus+, to step up the acquisition of new skills, but also to build trust in qualifications acquired in eu member states and in countries outside the eu.
in writing. the european skills agenda is a necessary and long-awaited document. the problem in the european union labour market is not only high unemployment due to too little labour supply. we also have many openings and the skills of employees are often not adapted to employers' expectations and to dynamically changing working conditions. i therefore welcome today's statement by the commission. i am glad that the problem has been addressed in a comprehensive way and that support will be directed both towards basic skills training for less-educated workers and towards more advanced technologies. i believe that teaching relevant skills, including especially digital skills and entrepreneurship skills, should be an integral part of the learning process from the earliest age and at all stages of education. it is also important to create the right climate and framework for lifelong learning, as its potential is still not fully exploited in many member states.
in writing. first of all, i am pleased that the commission has taken up the european agenda for new skills and that it has focused on basic and transversal skills and on strengthening cooperation between educational institutions and the labour market, and on vocational training. basic skills: reading, writing, counting and reasoning, which have been studied for years by the pisa test for 15-year-olds, among others, show that more than 20% of young europeans do not reach a basic level of skill. most worryingly, this rate is more than twice as high in low socioeconomic status and immigrant families, where it exceeds 37% on average, but in some eu countries it is as high as 70%. this creates a vicious circle of poverty and exclusion, social ghettos, limited access to the labour market and further education for entire social groups, with half or more of the population trapped in a lifelong low-skill trap. i agree with the commission that there is also a need to develop transversal skills, such as foreign language skills, digital skills, at all levels and specialisations of education. we also need continuously updated skill sets for the labour market, defined and developed in students in close cooperation with the business environment. the announced review of the qualifications framework and the building of partnerships with employers and other labour market partners will therefore be crucial to the success of this initiative.
mr. chairman, please! southeast asia, particularly the south china sea, is today on the one hand a powder keg that is in danger of exploding at any moment because of the multitude of conflicts and the large concentration of huge armies from different countries, but on the other hand it is a region of greatly developing economies, economically developing countries asian tigers. it is therefore very important that the european union has a very strong presence in the region, both politically and diplomatically and economically. good relations with the philippines, a country of 100 million catholics, should, in my view, be a priority for us, and that is why i am pleased that we are finalising the partnership and cooperation agreement and launching free trade negotiations between the european union and the philippines. i hope we can finalize both contracts as soon as possible.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 june 2016.
the next item is the debate on the question with a request for an oral answer to the council by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the united states senate report on the use of torture by the cia (o-000038/2016 - b8-0367/2016) (2016/2573 ((rsp)) and the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the follow-up to the united states senate report on the use of torture by the cia (o-000039/2016 - b8-0367/2016 ((rsp))).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a civilized man cannot do otherwise, must condemn torture, must condemn the imprisonment of people without trial, the use of extraordinary measures. but i would like to say frankly that i have some doubts about the way this issue is being presented in the european parliament. first, as the minister for the presidency said, the united states has closed a programme that could have been the subject of severe criticism and which will probably be the subject of further research. commissioner jurova says that at that time there were no european union instruments, no legal agreements, no commitments. the presidency recalls, and i would like to recall, that national security is a matter for the member states and that is where the proceedings to establish these facts should take place. it is a matter for the sovereign decisions of these countries. the european parliament has every right to appeal to public opinion, to mobilise public opinion, but does it have the right to conduct investigations? i think that under the treaties it can only deal with the european institutions and not with the member states. so there's a need for some rationality in action here. no one can be indifferent to the use of uncivilized methods, to torture. but there are no terrorists in this discussion. so, my question is, why are there no terrorists in this discussion? they're the ones who want to destroy our civilization. it is clear that you cannot fight terrorism by abusing human rights, by attacking human rights, but you cannot interpret human rights in such a way that the free world is paralyzed in the fight against terrorism.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 june 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by mr bogdan zdrojewski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european security and defence policy's capability to operate in outer space (2015/2276 ((ini)) (a8-0151/2016) and the commission statement on the marketing of comic products (2016/2731 ((rsp)) and the commission statement on the european industrial policy for outer space (2016/2730 ((rsp)).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i will start by explaining why i took the initiative to work on this report for five main reasons. first, to draw attention to the importance of the development of the space industry for the whole of europe. secondly, with the call for long-term financial guarantees. third, with an attempt to promote what has already been done, what has already been done, and i remind you that this is the only civilian system in the world, not a military one, as is the case with russia, china, or even the united states. fourthly, it is also an initiative to build a wide range of mechanisms to support the tasks of galileo and copernicus in the area of security in a broad sense. i want to emphasize the broad security, not the military nature of the tasks. and fifth, i was very keen to highlight the importance of systems for virtually all economic sectors. there's agriculture, and infrastructure, and communications, and energy, but of course there's also educational tasks and scientific tasks. what's important, of course, are the recommendations. i will not be presenting the report because it has been forwarded to you. my recommendations are based on the conviction that the development and financing of space industries and technologies is one of the most important factors for europe's economic success, as well as for improving the quality of services and building effective systems of broadly defined security - as i mentioned earlier - and for strengthening the element that president juncker often talks about - a creative, enterprising, strong europe. what's important about these systems is also to ensure that they control the most important, the most important threats that are out there right now. these are very different: they are both climate-related, i.e. those linked to natural disasters, and terrorist, i.e. those caused by man with full premeditation, as well as special events and failures, for example in the energy sector. and most importantly, space systems and space technology offer the opportunity to respond quickly to completely new phenomena, such as the current difficulty of dealing with drones, which are widely used by individuals, by individuals, and which cause serious risks, for example in aviation, as well as terrorist threats. at the end of this introductory speech, i would like to thank mr marinescu, who, on behalf of the itre committee, drew attention to the economic aspects of the accompanying opinion. i would also like to thank those colleagues who have tabled over 200 amendments of various kinds, which in fact improve the report itself and highlight many other aspects which, because of their limited scope, could not have been included in the original version. and i want to say, finally, that the debate on this report was a great barometer of our condition, of the way we think about the future today, which is when, in short, it's not too late.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. space capabilities are increasingly being used in many areas of our lives - telecommunications, navigation, weather monitoring. that is why a new space strategy for the union is so important if we are to keep up with the rest of the world. the development of the space market is also very important in this respect. however, space technology also has defence capabilities, which is the main concern of the report by mr zdrojewski. the proliferation of space technologies leads to competition for space resources. many countries are actively developing anti-satellite technologies, including orbital weapons, reflecting the militarisation of outer space and the need for european states to develop capabilities to defend space infrastructure. the report by mr zdrojewski rightly stresses the need to develop the european space industry, also in terms of increasing the defence capabilities of the union countries. this should be done in close cooperation with our allies, because the document's statement on the need for coordination and compatibility of european space capabilities with nato and the us should be considered appropriate. (the president interrupted the member's speech because there was no simultaneous translation into italian) however, the commission's planned measures to support the space industry should reduce the high concentration of this industry. two companies employ more than half of the european space industry's workforce. the main production facilities are located in six countries: france, germany, italy, the united kingdom, spain and belgium. the union's space strategy, the outcome of which was presented by commissioner pieńkowska in january 2016, aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry. this ambitious objective should also take into account the innovation potential of other member states and should include encouraging the participation of smaller companies in the union's space policy.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the itre committee. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner on her words defining this future space strategy and defence action plan. we are talking in the european parliament before the commission has developed this strategy, because we wanted to have a positive impact on the commission's activities. most of us speak in the same spirit, in the same tone. this is important, commissioner! we're trying to get you to go on a very ambitious program. such an ambitious programme is not, as is usual in a democracy, supported by the majority of the european parliament. we talk about a lot of things here, but mostly we talk about the use of space technology. this is important, but even more important is the technological advantage that has always been given to the countries that have been leading in space technology. this technological advantage lasts for a variety of reasons, even three or four decades. and that's the kind of perspective that we're thinking about if we invest in good, cutting-edge space technology. we in the european parliament, and at least the itre committee, believe that the cost of an ambitious space policy is not just an expense. these are investments for decades. i repeat, ambition costs money, but not having ambition would cost us much more. it will make us more interdependent, it will make us less safe, it will make us more likely to waste the potential of our industry, it will make us more likely to have a brain drain. so we encourage you to have an ambitious program.
mr. chairman, please! mr zdrojewski's report is a good crescendo for the interest already existing in the european parliament, especially in sede and itre, and in the work of the european commission. i hope that the sede delegation's recent visit to noordwijk, the european space agency's headquarters, has also contributed to the quality of this report. for poland, european space policy is very important. i wanted to highlight projects such as the optoelectronic earth observation satellite programme and the prs signal programme for galileo. i just hope that in the future, satellites will be launched into earth orbit autonomously. i am supplementing this part of the report which also deals with transatlantic cooperation.
the european union's space policy is crucial for economic growth and the development of societies. it has a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, for example, weather forecasts are based on data generated by the space industry. such activities are a driver of innovation and competitiveness, especially in the area of the sharing economy. the data generated by the space industry is crucial to its development. take self-driving cars, for example. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, as well as the purchase, hire or rental of furniture and equipment, and the purchase of furniture and equipment for the construction and maintenance of buildings. in the context of the challenges ahead, closer coordination of the european union's space policy is necessary. the number of stakeholders: member states, the european space agency, as well as the eu itself, hampers the optimisation of the decision-making process and limits the effectiveness of the implementation of the decisions taken. the union's main objective should be to ensure better coordination of action between the various actors and more effective management of public resources. in this context, the funding structure of the union's space policy, which focuses on the development of existing programmes, should be mentioned. the union excludes the possibility of active participation of new member states, which are only taking their first steps in space policy, from entirely new initiatives. in this context, i would like to ask how the european commission intends to encourage the new member states to participate more actively in the union's space programmes.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i have received a number of compliments on this report during the debate, for which i would like to thank you very warmly. it's good to see you. but i'll say right away, not really, because there's still a need to promote and also to inform what space technology is. so we have a lot of work to do. i thank mr tajani, mrs grossetête, mr buzek and mrs fotyga for their speeches, because they showed their concern for this strong, modern and creative europe we share. i would like to thank mrs annie fotyda in particular, because she was the one who, in the sede committee, initiated the procedure for this report, which was also very important to me. i also want to reply to mr schaffhauser, but he is not here, so i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête, because what france is doing in space technology deserves special recognition and, i must say, it is a great, gigantic effort. and the fact that france is now extending this effort to other countries, much less developed, deserves respect and can be a source of pride, not of attack, as has just happened. and one last thing for mrs. lösing, who is also not in this report and there was no mention of any war, no army, no militarization. the concept of safety, on the other hand, covers many elements - ambulance traffic on the road, searching for a missing tourist, searching for a ship, responding to various hazards that are associated with industrial disasters. and we have to remember that when we talk about security, we are sensitive to the fate of each individual human being. we will also emphasise in all our space capabilities that the system being built - not by one country, but by all of europe - is to create the foundations, the foundation of a strong, modern, with a future europe, which will also be strong economically. i just want to say thank you again.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 june 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the commission's statement on the implementation of the juncker plan, which says that €13 billion has already been spent by the efsi and that this should generate €100 billion in investment supporting 64 infrastructure projects and concluding 185 contracts to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, is encouraging. unfortunately, there is a clear imbalance in the territorial distribution of the projects supported. the vast majority of these projects are from western europe, including projects that seem to be market-financed, such as motorway projects in bavaria or the netherlands. central and eastern europe is unfortunately a white spot in this respect, despite its investment lag and huge needs in infrastructure, energy and innovation. in my country, poland, only one project in the dairy industry was supported, for a sum of 46 million euros. however, none of the many projects in the energy sector received support. i would therefore like to express the hope that, in the next two years of the juncker plan, the issue of the balance in the territorial distribution of the investments supported by the efsi will be at the centre of the commission's attention.
madam chairman, mr chairman of the commission! in just over a year, the european investment fund (eif) has launched investments worth around eur 100 billion for nearly 250 infrastructure projects in 24 member states. according to the information on the european commission's website, there are huge differences in how the funds are used by the different countries. most of the projects mentioned above are in western europe. mr president, i have a question: what are the reasons for these differences? is the problem only the quality of the projects submitted by the individual countries? or is it that in the case of my country, poland, where the european commission has become virtually a party to an internal conflict, political issues are partly the deciding factor?
madam president, i think that after one year of operation we have achieved reasonably good results. of course, efsi does not produce miracles but i hope nobody expected that. the figures on balance are good and encouraging. one concern i have is that the geographical distribution of projects is not well balanced. this issue has already been raised earlier. we would like to have a clear explanation on that and perhaps suggestions as to what can be done in order to make this distribution more balanced. another important concern which i also have is on one of the initial goals of the efsi plan. this goal was to improve the investment climate in europe in general. basically, efsi was supposed to work as a confidence-building measure. to what extent do you think we have achieved this goal, commissioner? to what extent have we managed to improve the investment environment and the regulatory framework in the eu member states in order to encourage autonomous private investment to take place? when i look at the statistics, we see that investment is still very sluggish. of course, one question is to what extent this additionality condition has been fulfilled and to what extent we have avoided the crowding out effect of private investment. but the other thing is the regulatory framework, to what extent we have managed to make the environment more conducive to business, and to what extent we have managed to convince private business to start investment because the prospects for growth in europe have improved. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for this question. i think we have to indeed had a closer look into the system of project selection. i think the project selection should be based on the criterion of additional value added, in terms of european value added. in this sense, i am, for instance, against excessive concentration of projects in selected countries. no, the project should be selected on the basis of economic viability. we should not forget, after all, that it is the eib which is behind this selection, and of course the projects have to fulfil economic criteria.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is no coincidence that the commissioner wants us to talk about an investment plan all the time, and our house talks about an investment fund, basically confining itself to the fund. it's not a coincidence, and it's worth thinking about why we're not talking about the other elements of the plan. the evaluation of the fund is, according to the regulations, foreseen for 2018. that's the first one. secondly, as rapporteur for budgetary revision, i would like to express my satisfaction that the commission is proposing a revision of the budget. the proposal to extend the efsi for the next few years is a de facto proposal to revise the multiannual perspective. i am therefore pleased that the commission wants to review the budget. and the third very important element: there is a difficulty in implementing the link between the efsi and the structural funds. - the commissioner spoke about this, we have an example from france - but in reality it is very difficult. i would also like to draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that the requirements for the funds are different from those for efsi projects: there is no compatibility between the two elements. if both are to be european, then the conditions must be similar. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. with this structure of the fund, simple geographical transfers are not possible. so i think it's a good idea to have some kind of entity that thinks about how to mobilize investors to have a geographical impact, because you can't start from geographical assumptions. i would totally support that.
in writing. in the context of the review of the investment plan for europe, i am calling on the commission to help us achieve one of its key objectives, namely to improve the quality of the education process by creating new funding opportunities for the education and training sector. unfortunately, no education-related project has been submitted under the investment plan so far. to encourage potential beneficiaries to apply for funding, we therefore need additional information campaigns and practical support for educational centres in developing relevant projects. i also stress that priority should be given to projects that focus on, among other things, the elimination of educational and training inequalities and the implementation of a dual education system based on international cooperation.
in writing. the investment plan aims to remove obstacles to investment in europe, both at national and european level. its task is to create a friendly environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. this project has created the appropriate financial instruments which have increased the potential of the single market to some extent. moreover, despite the apparent unemployment, high deficits, structural problems, i am convinced that the effects of previously ineffective policies have been mitigated. the positive impact of the investment plan on the functioning of some of the institutions that have chosen to use it is already apparent. however, we must be aware that cooperation between member states in promoting this project needs to be strengthened. we as representatives need to take action to make people aware of the benefits of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). i believe that increased funding for innovative projects, which will ultimately increase competition in the european and global markets, and joint action, cooperation between member states will increase the scope and impact of the juncker plan, which will in turn boost economic growth, which has been slowed down by the global financial crisis.
in writing. i welcome today's statement by the commission summarising the achievements of the investment plan so far, eighteen months after president juncker launched the investment plan and one year after the launch of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). however, i am still far from satisfied with the high potential of the cultural and creative sectors for job creation, long-term growth and competitiveness in the investment plan for europe. referring to my role as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the efsi, i would like to stress once again that the fund should also be targeted at projects in the cultural and creative sectors. these sectors act as catalysts and propagators of innovation, and their beneficial effects are not limited to these sectors but are also felt in many other sectors of the economy. i therefore stress that their contribution to the achievement of eu policy objectives is undeniable and i hope that this will be used in the ambitious plans of the commission to mobilise at least eur 315 billion for additional investment in the real economy by mid-2018. i also see particular potential for the cultural and creative sectors to be exploited through the recently launched european investment project portal and the european investment advisory hub.
in writing. ‒ given the nature of the document and its objectives, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of the creation of a commission of inquiry on the panama papers and i believe that national egoisms must stop paralyzing international efforts to combat tax fraud and that information about who actually owns a company must stop being a secret. at the same time, i think that the discussion on this topic should also include an aspect of analysing the reasons for the popularity of so-called tax havens in recent decades. the growing bureaucracy, the constantly new laws and regulations, the successive financial burdens, including taxes, sometimes reaching up to 70% of income, cause many companies to decide to move their activities to other countries, not only to so-called tax havens, but simply to other countries with a lower level of bureaucracy and fiscalism. this is often compounded by irrational and inefficient spending of public money and widespread distribution, which discourages entrepreneurs from giving a significant part of their earnings to the state. on the one hand, they feel that they are paying too much tax, and on the other hand, that their money is being squandered by certain countries. there is no doubt that criminals must be prosecuted, but i believe that the causes of these unacceptable phenomena must be analysed in order to develop effective mechanisms to eliminate them. i believe, therefore, that the committee of inquiry will also look into these matters.
in writing. ‒ money laundering, tax evasion and non-compliance with eu administrative rules have negative economic consequences not only for the global economy but also for the economies of individual member states and their regions. i believe that this type of criminal activity leads to a slowdown in economic growth as a result of the increase in financial crime and thus to a reduction in the cost of crime. i am convinced that the establishment of a commission of inquiry to investigate the functioning of institutions operating in tax havens such as panama will help to significantly reduce the number of criminal activities. the commission, which will have 12 months to prepare its final report, will certainly be able to look more closely at the 'panama papers' and identify actions to prevent financial crime.
in writing. ‒ in december last year, the eu signed identical short-stay visa waiver agreements with the republic of palau, the kingdom of tonga and the republic of colombia. under the agreements, eu citizens will be able to stay in these countries without a visa for 90 days in any 180-day period, as will their eu counterparts. to benefit from the visa-free regime, eu citizens and nationals of signatory states must hold a valid passport: ordinary, diplomatic, service/office or special. however, the short-stay visa waiver does not apply to persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreements are already provisionally applied after receiving the unanimous support of the schengen governments in the council, but their full conclusion requires the consent of the european parliament. the united kingdom and ireland will not participate in the agreement as their visa systems remain subject to national legislation. i personally see these agreements as a way of promoting people-to-people contacts in the countries concerned. they should provide trade opportunities in the face of increased tourist arrivals and help promote economic relations between the eu and these countries. i therefore did not oppose these agreements and voted in favour of their adoption.
in writing. ‒ the european union should support countries that are pursuing the path of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights through its actions. visa liberalisation not only enables tourism and investment to flourish, but also provides an opportunity to promote the values on which the european union is founded. as a global political actor, the eu should seek to strengthen economic and cultural links with the different regions of the world. i hope that this agreement will allow us to intensify our cooperation with the pacific countries, which is why i voted to abolish short-stay visas for the citizens of the republic of palau.
in writing. ‒ in december last year, the eu signed identical short-stay visa waiver agreements with the republic of palau, the kingdom of tonga and the republic of colombia. under the agreements, eu citizens will be able to stay in these countries without a visa for 90 days in any 180-day period, as will their eu counterparts. to benefit from the visa-free regime, eu citizens and nationals of signatory states must hold a valid passport: ordinary, diplomatic, service/office or special. however, the short-stay visa waiver does not apply to persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreements are already provisionally applied after receiving the unanimous support of the schengen governments in the council, but their full conclusion requires the consent of the european parliament. the united kingdom and ireland will not participate in the agreement as their visa systems remain subject to national legislation. i personally see these agreements as a way of promoting people-to-people contacts in the countries concerned. they should provide trade opportunities in the face of increased tourist arrivals and help promote economic relations between the eu and these countries. i therefore did not oppose these agreements and voted in favour of their adoption.
in writing. ‒ the european union should support countries that are pursuing the path of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights through its actions. visa liberalisation not only enables tourism and investment to flourish, but also provides an opportunity to promote the values on which the european union is founded. as a global political actor, the eu should seek to strengthen economic and cultural links with the different regions of the world. i hope that this agreement will allow us to intensify our cooperation with the pacific countries, which is why i voted to abolish short-stay visas for the citizens of the kingdom of tonga.
in writing. ‒ in december last year, the eu signed identical short-stay visa waiver agreements with the republic of palau, the kingdom of tonga and the republic of colombia. under the agreements, eu citizens will be able to stay in these countries without a visa for 90 days in any 180-day period, as will their eu counterparts. to benefit from the visa-free regime, eu citizens and nationals of signatory states must hold a valid passport: ordinary, diplomatic, service/office or special. however, the short-stay visa waiver does not apply to persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreements are already provisionally applied after receiving the unanimous support of the schengen governments in the council, but their full conclusion requires the consent of the european parliament. the united kingdom and ireland will not participate in the agreement as their visa systems remain subject to national legislation. i personally see these agreements as a way of promoting people-to-people contacts in the countries concerned. they should provide trade opportunities in the face of increased tourist arrivals and help promote economic relations between the eu and these countries. i therefore did not oppose these agreements and voted in favour of their adoption.
in writing. ‒ the republic of colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still require a visa to travel to the european union. i believe that the abolition of short-stay visas will allow for closer cooperation. i believe that political dialogue should continue, so that the principles of democracy and fundamental freedoms in the republic of colombia can be further strengthened. despite the risks (including illegal migration), the possibility of an agreement must be sought, which is why i voted in favour of abolishing short-stay visas for the citizens of the republic of colombia.
in writing. ‒ in may 2012, five countries (the us, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica) together with the eu started negotiations to extend the ita product range. they were later joined by 21 other wto members. on 16 december 2015, at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi, 53 wto members reached agreement on a second information technology agreement, which includes a schedule for the removal of tariffs on 201 it products worth over usd 1,17 trillion per year. the agreement provides for the elimination of approximately 65% of tariff lines by 1 july 2016. the ita extension is the first major agreement on tariff reductions since the establishment of the wto. it also has a huge potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth. i am a strong supporter of the multilateral agreement under discussion, which is why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the expansion of trade in information technology products is the european union's response to global technological progress. the rules will help european producers of such products to access a growing market. moreover, the development of trade in advanced technologies is also a step towards developing the innovation capacity of the european economy and improving the situation of manufacturers of such solutions.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the development of trade in information technology products (ita), signed in 1996, was undoubtedly a milestone in the liberalisation of trade in it products. however, after 20 years, it has had to adapt to the enormous technological changes that have taken place in recent times. by amending and extending the scope of this agreement, the new generation it products will also be able to benefit from the customs facilities. this is an important step for the world trade organisation and it is good that the european union has been the driving force behind this change. this will effectively protect european companies from unfair competition in the global system. by joining the agreement, the 54 signatory countries commit to phasing out tariffs on as many as 201 information technology products, such as video game consoles, gps navigation systems, magnetic resonance imaging devices, telecommunications satellites, touch screens and video cameras. the extension and extension of the ita is of enormous economic importance. according to the world trade organisation, its products account for around 7% of world trade, or eur 1,1 trillion. the european parliament's green light is a confirmation of the eu's commitment to the process of liberalising trade in these products.
in writing. ‒ the first agreement on trade in information technology products (itp) entered into force in 1997. it required the parties to eliminate and bind duties at zero rate for products such as computers, telephones, computer equipment, etc. its implementation has led to a revival of trade in these products and lower prices for consumers and producers. the current amendment to the agreement extends the list of products contained in the 1997 agreement. i assume that the expansion of ita to new products will further develop trade, increase industrial employment and increase gdp. the eu has an important role to play in supporting the development of new technologies, which is why i voted in favour of the ita.
in writing. ‒ i support the positive recommendation of the european parliament's international trade committee on the signing of the information technology agreement (ita) by the 29 wto member states at the 1996 ministerial conference in singapore and on the future conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the development of trade in information technology products (ita). it is a very important document which aims to bind and eliminate customs duties on an additional 201 it products. the elimination and zeroing of duties should apply to as many it products as possible. it is very good that products such as gps navigation systems, medical devices, telecommunication satellites and other high-tech products have been mentioned in this list. however, sensitive products must not be forgotten. the seven-year transitional period for the total elimination of duties on such products is reasonable. however, it is important that the conclusion of the agreement in question contributes to the economic development of the european union. according to the calculations presented by the experts, if all parties ratify the agreement, exports of goods from the union could increase by around 0.7% to 1.4% of its base value, which amounts to eur 1224 billion.
in writing. ‒ on 3 august 2015, the council requested a risk assessment of the use and manufacture of the new psychoactive substance α-pvp. according to the risk assessment, α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant substance and its use has resulted in a total of 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute poisoning in the eight member states where α-pvp has been detected. i believe that if α-pvp were to become widely available and used, the consequences for individual and public health could be significant. on the basis of the findings of the risk assessment report, the commission concluded that there are grounds for imposing control measures on α-pvp across the union. i fully agree with the commission's conclusions and therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is striving to raise the safety and living standards of its citizens year by year. one important element of this process is the proper control of substances such as psychotropic substances that can be dangerous to life and health. the compromise reached will reduce the potential risks posed by such measures and strengthen cooperation at european level on measures to control psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the new psychoactive substance α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant. despite the very limited information and studies available, it can be concluded that this substance poses a serious risk to human health and life. in the eight member states where α-pvp was detected, a total of 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute poisoning were reported. cooperation between eu countries can help fight the new drug and facilitate judicial cooperation. the overriding objective is to protect against the risks that may arise from the availability and use of this substance, which is why i voted in favour of subjecting α-pvp to control measures.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 sns convention applies to claims for damage arising from the carriage of sns by sea, except for claims arising from a contract of carriage of goods or passengers, and establishes the strict liability of the ship-owner for any damage arising in connection with the carriage of sns. the convention also introduces a new system of liability and compensation that not only covers damage caused by pollution from ships but also takes account of the risk of fire and explosion, including loss of life or personal injury and loss of or damage to property. importantly, the convention establishes a special compensation fund to compensate any person who has suffered damage in connection with the transport of sns by sea, insofar as such person has not been able to obtain full and sufficient compensation for the damage from the shipowner and his insurer. the convention also contains provisions on the jurisdiction of the courts of the states parties in respect of claims by persons who have suffered damage (as defined in the convention) against the owner or his insurer or against the sns fund. unfortunately, there were some points in the document that raised my doubts, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the states parties to the international convention are those which sign the protocol in their own name and not on behalf of the union. it is not the european parliament's responsibility to give them the power to do so, and that is why i abstained. my doubts do not concern the risk assessment of dangerous goods being transported, because i have a precise and firm opinion on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the sns convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances. the implementation of its provisions is in the interest of both the maritime economy (and tourism) and the people living in the coastal zone, as their losses and gains from pollution will be compensated. it is estimated that the convention will not lead to an additional burden on member states' budgets, but will change the responsibilities of the national maritime administration. the convention will also affect shipowners, who will have to take out insurance contracts, and recipients of dangerous and harmful cargo, who will be obliged to pay contributions to the sns fund. the sns convention has the potential to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying sns and, through the establishment of a fund, should ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents. however, there is a risk that the shipping sector will be subject to two different systems at once, one eu and the other international, which could result in unequal treatment of pollution victims. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the sns convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances. the implementation of its provisions is in the interest of both the maritime economy (and tourism) and the people living in the coastal zone, as their losses and gains from pollution will be compensated. it is estimated that the convention will not lead to an additional burden on member states' budgets, but will change the responsibilities of the national maritime administration. the convention will also affect shipowners, who will have to take out insurance contracts, and recipients of dangerous and harmful cargo, who will be obliged to pay contributions to the sns fund. the sns convention has the potential to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying sns and, through the establishment of a fund, should ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents. however, there is a risk that the shipping sector will be subject to two different systems at once, one eu and the other international, which could result in unequal treatment of pollution victims. because of my doubts about this convention, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the states parties to the international convention are those which sign the protocol in their own name and not on behalf of the union. it is not the european parliament's responsibility to give them the power to do so, and that is why i abstained. my doubts do not concern the risk assessment of dangerous substances carried, because i have a precise and firm opinion on this matter.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for assent submitted by the council pursuant to articles 207 and 209 and the second subparagraph of article 218 (6) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as well as the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i fully agree with the protocol to the agreement submitted, which is intended to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the eu-republic of the philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation is a natural consequence of its membership of the european union as of 1 july 2013. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of the philippines have longstanding relations, which have been significantly expanded and deepened in recent years. the eu is one of the philippines' main trading and investment partners. these relations were further strengthened by the partnership and cooperation agreement, which was initialled in 2010 and signed on 11 july 2012. the agreement will first have to be ratified by eu member states and then submitted to the european parliament before it can formally enter into force. the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement calls, inter alia, for the establishment of a constructive human rights dialogue in the form of a human rights working group. mindanao, the southernmost major island of the philippines, has long struggled with communist and islamic insurgencies and terrorism. since 2007, the european union has been promoting and supporting a politically negotiated settlement to the conflict in the south of the island. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. i also share the concern about the human rights situation and the atmosphere of impunity that is allegedly prevailing in a country that ranks very high in the world in terms of impunity. given the problems you've raised, i voted to accept the deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the eu and the philippines have a longstanding relationship. these relations have been considerably strengthened by the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement signed on 11 july 2011. therefore, while i share the concerns about the human rights situation, i support the agreement to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of the philippines have longstanding relations, which have been significantly expanded and deepened in recent years. the eu is one of the philippines' main trading and investment partners. these relations were further strengthened by the partnership and cooperation agreement, which was initialled in 2010 and signed on 11 july 2012. the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement calls, inter alia, for the establishment of a constructive human rights dialogue in the form of a human rights working group. mindanao, the southernmost major island of the philippines, has long struggled with communist and islamic insurgencies and terrorism. since 2007, the european union has been promoting and supporting a politically negotiated settlement to the conflict in the south of the island. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the eu and the republic of the philippines has two main objectives: intensive economic cooperation and the exchange of political experience. the content of the agreement under discussion supports both of these objectives and suggests that the republic of the philippines will continue its political and economic reforms, which is why i voted to adopt it as proposed.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution, parliament welcomes the partnership and cooperation agreement and expresses the view that the eu should continue to provide support and capacity building assistance to the philippines to promote peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform and to help the country achieve disaster preparedness. it also commends the philippines for its participation in the international coalition against terrorism since 2001 and expresses concern about the possible influence of isis on affiliated groups in south-east asia. it also stresses the importance of the peace process in mindanao. calls on the government to implement all core international conventions related to human and labour rights, the environment and good governance. it also encourages the philippines to further improve the investment climate and welcomes the 2015 agreement to open negotiations on an eu-philippines free trade agreement. i personally support this agreement and understand its importance. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the eu and the republic of the philippines has two main objectives: intensive economic cooperation and the exchange of political experience. the content of the agreement under discussion supports both of these objectives and suggests that the republic of the philippines will continue its political and economic reforms, which is why i voted to adopt it as proposed.
in writing. ‒ the eu's proposed medium-term loan of up to eur 500 million is intended to help meet tunisia's financing needs for 2016-2017 as identified by the commission on the basis of imf estimates. the disbursements are conditional on the positive outcome of the imf programme reviews. in addition, the protocol is likely to address issues related to trade, tax reform, banking reform, civil service, labour market instruments and the tourism sector. the urgent need for funding means that the european parliament must take a decision before the holiday break so that the funds can be disbursed on time. in order to speed up the procedure, the rapporteur does not suggest any amendments to the regulation. given the urgency of the document and the need for further assistance to tunisia, which means the possibility of its further transition towards democracy, i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ financial assistance to tunisia will not only support the economy of this crisis-stricken country, but above all contribute to the development of democracy in the region. this money will allow the eu to further develop cooperation with tunisia and to strengthen the shared values of modern democracy, such as respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ following the recent terrorist attacks in tunisia, which have affected key sectors of the economy, including tourism, the international community should show solidarity with our important partner. despite huge problems such as a declining gdp and rising unemployment, tunisia continues on a path of difficult reforms and efforts to build a state based on democratic values. eu support is crucial and needed by both partners. it is in the interest of european countries to have a stable and predictable partner in the north african region, which is why i supported macrofinancial assistance.
in writing. ‒ building a stable european union neighbourhood requires a specific financial effort. tunisia is one of the key elements of europe's immediate international environment. the recent years have been a period of political and military unrest, which has not been conducive to the building of a stable democratic tunisian state after years of military dictatorship. the terrorist threat has effectively hampered the development of tunisia's most important economic sector, tourism. rising unemployment and the growing threat of a permanent political crisis could derail the efforts of supporters of democracy and civil rule of law in tunisia for years to come. i therefore support the provision of macroeconomic support to tunisia and believe that it will help to maintain the country's pro-western stance. we need allies and reliable partners in the arab world. without such cooperation, it is impossible to stem the tide of illegal immigration to europe and to fight islamic terrorism. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i agree, of course, that such aid cannot be unconditional and that the control of the credit guarantees granted to tunisia must be sound and scrupulous. i also hope that the commission will be able to report regularly on the effects of this support and that subsequent decisions will be taken on the basis of the actual effects of this aid. i also believe that similar tools will be used in the future to support our partners in eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur clearly states that harmonisation of european tax systems is the only way to achieve a well-functioning single market. in this spirit, it recommends that the commission submit as soon as possible a proposal for a common corporate tax base and that the council adopt it without delay. the report also proposes a number of stricter rules on efforts to combat tax base erosion, which in practice could harm the eu's global competitiveness and harm companies that invest and pay taxes fairly. this is the case, for example, of a provision which lowers the threshold for deducting interest, at a time when tax avoidance in multinational companies is most often intra-group. the report also suggests that the european parliament should be the appropriate monitoring body for the implementation of this tax avoidance directive and the member states should be accountable to it, which is something that, given the treaty's division of powers, sovereign governments cannot accept under any circumstances. i believe that the proposals in the report are very much interfering not only with the competence of the member states but also with the common rules being developed by the oecd. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has endorsed new rules proposed by the european commission to tackle certain tax avoidance practices. oecd research shows that aggressive tax planning by multinational companies results in annual losses to national budgets of between usd 100 and 240 billion, or between 4% and 10% of global corporate tax revenues. such loss of income reduces the capacity of countries to invest and, consequently, does not contribute to employment and poverty reduction. the overarching objective of this report is to get companies to pay taxes where they generate profits. the commission is also proposing to introduce a tax on unrealised capital gains for multinational companies that transfer their profits to low-tax countries. there will also be strict limits on tax breaks and greater transparency for trusts and foundations. in conclusion, the rules introduced are a good step towards limiting the erosion of the tax base. a coordinated approach to taxation is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and of the union's capital markets.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the deductibility of interest to be limited to 20% or eur 2 000 000 (ec proposal: 30%) and furthermore limits the period during which deductions can be made to five years (no limit in the ec proposal). this item is not proportionate and risks hitting companies that apply for a loan for legitimate commercial use to make an investment. furthermore, the large variation in interest rates between eu member states is completely ignored. it also suggests that the so-called 'switch-over' clause (which does not exist in the oecd proposal) is also applicable within the eu. the commission proposes to refuse this exemption if foreign income is taxed at a rate lower than 40% of the national rate, which raises problems with the interpretation of bilateral double taxation agreements. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i support all measures to ensure fair and effective taxation of businesses. according to an oecd study, aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations costs the national budgets worldwide between $100 billion and $240 billion annually. companies should pay taxes where they make their profits. however, i cannot agree to the unification of the tax systems of the member states of the european union. this area should be reserved exclusively for the prerogatives of national governments. they should take such tax policy measures as they deem appropriate. centralization of taxation powers can cause economic problems and hinder competition, which is beneficial for the average eu citizen. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the idea of fighting tax avoidance, but i voted against it because i believe that the ideas in the bayet report not only interfere too much with the competences of the member states and the common rules developed by the oecd, but also disproportionate to companies paying taxes honestly in the eu. the report clearly states that the harmonisation of european tax systems is the only way to achieve a well-functioning single market. in this spirit, the rapporteur recommends that the commission submit a proposal for a common corporate tax base as soon as possible and that the council adopt it without delay. in addition, the report proposes a number of stricter rules on work to counter tax base erosion that in practice could harm the eu's global competitiveness and harm companies that invest and pay taxes honestly, such as a provision lowering the threshold for deductions from interest, when most tax avoidance in multinational companies is intra-group. the report also suggests that the european parliament should be the appropriate monitoring body for the implementation of this directive on tax avoidance rules and that member states should be accountable to it, which is absolutely unacceptable for sovereign governments given the division of powers in the treaty. the report was adopted in committee by a very slim majority, indicating a lack of clear compromise on the part of this house.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is the next step in the european parliament's investigation into the alleged use of torture by the cia. i personally condemn the use of torture and believe that all aspects of international law and the charter of fundamental rights should be fully respected in this regard. i therefore fully support independent national investigations into this matter. i would also like to point out that the european parliament has no competence in the area of national security under the eu treaties, which should remain unchanged in this case. the resolution seeks to ascertain whether the council has fully addressed the concerns expressed in the last resolution and whether it has proposed safeguards to ensure respect for human rights in the exchange of intelligence. the resolution also contains a number of critical statements regarding the united states and is highly critical of a number of eu member states allegedly involved in aiding the cia. however, due to the lack of the european union's powers and the lack of access to concrete data, the european parliament has not been able to gather enough information, statistics and witnesses to approximate the scale of the problem. so much of it is still speculation. that's why i decided to vote for them.
madam president! i understand mr. mélenchon is concerned about putting a cia prisoner on the moon, not without a coat. i voted against the resolution as a whole and against paragraph 24 in particular, because, firstly, we believe that this is the beginning of the building of a european army which would take away the last remaining autonomy of the individual countries that make up the european union. and secondly, because the experience of multinational space exploration is very discouraging, and i'm afraid that just as the spacecraft failed to hit a comet and got lost somewhere, it could accidentally hit the united states instead of russia, or vice versa, and then there would be serious international complications. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, zdrojewski (epp, pl), analyses the role that space can play in the context of the eu's overall security and defence objectives. in its report, it argues that future developments in this sector will provide member states and the eu with an 'improved operational capacity' for the implementation of the csdp and other policy areas. the rapporteur also encourages member states to use space initiatives to implement joint programmes in the area of security and defence. the report also called for closer cooperation between the eu and nato. many of van orden's amendments point to the role of governments and cooperation with the united states. they were included in the report. the amendments by mr krasnodębski, stating that nato remains the guarantor of security and stability in europe, and suggesting problems with the launch of eu satellites, related to russian soyuz launchers, also have a big impact on the reception of the report as a whole. despite the complexity of the issue, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the role of space-based capabilities in the context of eu security and defence policy. future developments in this sector will provide member states and the eu as a whole with what we call 'enhanced operational capabilities' for implementing the common security and defence policy and other issues. the report encourages member states to use space programmes to implement joint security and defence initiatives. however, it also calls for closer eu-us cooperation on future space programmes and eu-nato cooperation. the report adopted a number of amendments reinforcing the importance of national governments and cooperation with the us, as well as amendments stating that nato remains the guarantor of european security and stability, and suggesting problems with the launch of eu satellites by russian soyuz missiles. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the space sector is a highly important element, not only for the european economy but also for the security of eu citizens. the earth observation and precision navigation capabilities that the union is building will provide us with the capability to better manage borders, provide early warning of disasters, and control maritime and air traffic. the union's space programmes are therefore a guarantee of our security. these systems also represent an opportunity not only for the large space technology industry but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are increasingly involved in large-scale space exploration projects. the private sector has been increasingly influencing the development of space technology for some time. we should support these initiatives and use development funds wisely so that smaller countries that are just entering the european space technology market can also benefit. the report also rightly highlights the promotion aspect of european satellite programmes, which has been neglected so far. we're creating a new gps system, an alternative and more accurate than the american system. thanks to the copernicus program, we have high-resolution satellite images. it is therefore important that europeans are aware of what the european union is doing.
in writing. ‒ a european security and defence policy in the field of space policy is of vital importance to the european union both in peacetime and in the event of war. in times of increasing competition for space resources (e.g. orbits, satellites, etc.), the eu should seek to strengthen cooperation and coordinate its own efforts with those of nato and the us. the potential of satellite could be used, among other things, to better assess and identify the flow of illegal immigrants or in the fight against terrorism. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the european union's capability to operate in space. the acquisition of such capability is crucial in many situations, both in terms of security and in day-to-day crisis management. it also has an important economic and scientific dimension, with an estimated 7% of the union's gdp depending on satellite positioning and navigation technologies. in this context, it is important to support the european galileo and copernicus programmes. data from earth observation satellites are helping to manage disasters, humanitarian missions, refugee relief, energy security and food security more effectively. this indicates the need for increased european funding for the development of its own satellite systems. galileo and copernicus are two of the eu's flagship programmes, whose successful implementation would confirm europe's position in the world.
madam president! i voted in favour of the resolution because i think that we must pay attention to the dramatic situation in venezuela, where a mad communist is in power, and in the opposition there are people who are almost as mad as he is, and no one listens to reasonable people. but i voted against one of the points because there was a country that was in a similar situation and came out of it: it was chile, ruled by the same madman, the sacred memory of salvador allende. and as a result of the assassination of the sacred memory of general augusto pinochet, this country became the richest country in latin america in two years, even though it had no oil. so i voted against the clause that says that a military coup should be ruled out. in a situation like this, it's the only sensible thing to do.
in writing. ‒ the resolution expressed concern at the deteriorating situation in the country, in particular the growing economic, social and political crisis and the general dismantling of the democratic rule of law. president maduro, who currently controls parliament, was called upon to engage in a process of dialogue with the democratic opposition to find a peaceful and constitutional solution to the current crisis in venezuela. the resolution also called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the venezuelan government to return to democracy as soon as possible, to respect the rule of law and to release political prisoners. i am deeply concerned about the current socio-economic and humanitarian situation in the country. every day, venezuelans face shortages of food, medicine and raw materials, while the government restricts the ability to provide humanitarian aid from outside. so what we're seeing now is a curious situation where the country with the largest oil reserves in the world is in the deepest recession in history, has the highest inflation rate, and the poverty rate has doubled in just three years. i believe that the european union should be involved in the process of dialogue with the venezuelan authorities while providing humanitarian support to the citizens of that country. the european parliament resolution rightly calls on the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to present an assistance plan for venezuela.
in writing. - the current situation in venezuela may be worrying. the state of the country is not good for its citizens. he is also concerned about the lack of agreement between the government and the elected parliament. the eu has a right to draw attention to political prisoners and the need for a peaceful settlement of all the parties to the conflict, which is why i supported the project on venezuela.
in writing. ‒ chemicals with endocrine disrupting properties affect the endocrine system of animals and humans and provide a new way of assessing the toxicity of chemicals. there is now a scientific consensus in many areas, although there are differences of opinion in the scientific and regulatory communities around the world on specific issues. regulation (eu) no 528/2012 (the biocidal products regulation) provides that active substances recognised as having endocrine disrupting properties which may cause undesirable effects in humans are not to be approved, unless an exception set out in the regulation applies. i fully share the objectives of protecting human health and the environment and ensuring a high level of protection, but i do not support this resolution and question the validity of the arbitrary deadline for setting these criteria. in my view, this resolution has some added value, since the commission has already accepted the judgment and publicly committed itself to speeding up the adoption of the criteria. indeed, the parliament's legal service has admitted that further legal action will be pointless as their subject matter will be unjustified after the criteria are published in june. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the european union ruled in a judgment of 16 december 2015 that the commission had infringed eu law by not taking action to adopt delegated acts establishing scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. the commission now has a clear, specific and unconditional obligation to adopt delegated acts. in this context, it should be borne in mind that the commission's work should be guided by the right proportions and a fair assessment of the risks to the health of citizens. only in this way will it be possible to maintain the highest safety standards, while promoting the competitiveness of the european agricultural market and other sectors at risk of negative consequences of the selection of inappropriate criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. eu standards must address cases where chemicals pose a real, rather than a theoretical, risk. i therefore strongly supported parliament's report on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has failed to fulfil its institutional obligations regarding the implementation of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 16.09.2015 (under article 266 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). it should as soon as possible define scientific criteria for properties that may interfere with the functioning of growth hormone. a situation in which the eu institution fails to fulfil its obligations under the treaties is very dangerous. the european parliament calls on the commission to fulfil its obligations.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution, the opponents consider that the implementing decision constitutes an overreach of the powers laid down in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed, arguing in particular that genetically modified maize causes tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. the authors demand that no new authorisations for genetically modified food and feed be granted under the current legal framework, which they consider to be flawed. because of the gravity of the problem, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing and produced from genetically modified maize. while i am aware of the potential risks of using gmos in food production, i would like to draw attention to the fact that gmos and food products have been on the market for a long time and that agricultural production using genetic engineering techniques is the most likely means of meeting the food needs of the world population today. therefore, decisions of the european parliament and the commission relating to gmos should focus on sufficiently precise cultivation and marketing regimes, as well as control and enforcement of legal restrictions in this regard, rather than on prohibitions, which may extend the grey area and exclude the production of gmos from the necessary controls.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food should be subject to strict controls on its impact on human health and the environment. any provisions adopted in this field should be duly respected. in the meantime, the commission exceeded its implementing powers as provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft decision.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution, the opponents claim that the implementing decision on the genetically modified carnation is incompatible with the health and environmental protection objectives of directive 2001/18/ec and therefore constitutes an overrun of implementing powers. the justification states that efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the deliberate consumption of genetically modified carnations by humans (e.g. as a decorative element) and draws attention to concerns related to the spread of pollen and resistance to sulphonylurea herbicides. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation. the resolution was prompted by concerns about the effects of using this ornamental plant in the catering industry, which cannot be excluded, and the environmental effects of marketing by composting waste after use of the product. in view of the potential, unrecognised or unconfirmed risks that the use of gmos may pose to the environment and to human consumption, i believe that adequate control and quality control of the production and use of products, as well as clear labelling of products so that consumers have full and fair information about the product, are better than a ban on marketing. prohibitions are easily circumvented and, with the obvious benefits of using gmos, there is a risk that the production and sale of genetically engineered agricultural products will be moved into a grey area, which would remove this production from the scrutiny and visibility of the market and thus create much more real risks to human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus) requires further, in-depth research, particularly on its environmental impact. the commission should therefore be firmly committed to the protection of health and the environment as provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. however, its implementing decision does not pursue that objective and i therefore voted in favour of a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the draft decision.
member of the commission. – mr president, freedom of movement gives millions of people in the european union unprecedented opportunities. cross-border personal and business relationships are thriving: 14 million citizens – and we already had this figure here from ms delvaux – reside in a member state other than their member state of origin; 13% of all marriages in the union are international; and 50% of smes are engaged in cross-border activities. i expect these numbers to continue rising. this proposal will make the life of millions of citizens and businesses easier by removing unnecessary and costly red tape. here we are: after three years of intense negotiations, with your vote tomorrow the union is about to take another important step. it might not make it to the front pages of the magazines, but many people will breathe a sigh of relief once this regulation enters into force. today, when people move to another eu country and they want to register a birth, get married, register a house, or apply for a residence card, the national authorities will ask for certified copies, certified translations and rubber stamps such as the apostille. this is time-consuming, costly, and perfectly unnecessary. this is now over for a whole range of life situations and corresponding documents. based on the principle of mutual trust, the regulation does away with the requirement to authenticate public documents with an apostille and simplifies obligations with regard to certified copies and translations. it also introduces multilingual standard forms to avoid translation requirements and reinforces the fight against false documents by setting up a system of cooperation between member states. parliament has been a strong supporter of this regulation from the start. i would like to pay tribute to mr rapkay, who gathered a solid majority in first reading under the previous legislature, and wish to thank ms delvaux and the shadow rapporteurs who skilfully negotiated the final compromise with the council. it was not easy; and we have a balanced compromise. the regulation covers several areas of immediate relevance to most citizens, in particular their civil status. we would all have preferred a broader scope of the regulation, covering additional areas for citizens as well as documents useful to businesses. it is thanks to parliament’s determination that the regulation provides for an early review of its scope. this early review will allow the commission to consider the inclusion in the scope of additional areas such as educational records, disabilities, and the legal status and representation of companies. parliament has also ensured that the fee that member states may charge to citizens for obtaining a multilingual standard form will be reasonable, and that member states will inform citizens of their rights under the regulation through their websites and also in individual contacts.
on behalf of the s&d group. several million eu citizens study or work outside their home country, exercising their right to free movement. each year, several hundred thousand official documents need to be legalised or certified in order to be recognised in countries other than those in which they were issued. in this context, simplification of formalities for citizens moving abroad is a very important issue. the introduction of standard multilingual forms for most of the documents covered by the regulation including residence, citizenship, civil status and criminal records will avoid costly translations and thus contribute to simplifying the procedures that union citizens have to complete when moving to other member states. i am pleased that the regulation contains review clauses providing for the extension of administrative facilities in the future. this is particularly important given that school diplomas and certificates, certificates of disability and many other documents relating to businesses are not covered by this regulation. the new rules will greatly facilitate the free movement of union citizens, who will be able to benefit from the new procedures as from 2019. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the good compromise that has been reached.
mr. chairman, please! fortunately, we have groups in the european parliament like the efdd and the french front national, who care about europe's identity, about its closure, about our being safe in our four corners and not letting anyone into the european union. let's be closed thank you very much for taking care of this. the citizens of the european union expect something quite different. the citizens of the european union are very pleased that the parliament and the council are finally adopting documents that make their daily lives easier. and this document, this regulation, makes life easier for millions of citizens who move around the european union, and they are not immigrants. these are european union citizens. you've got to accept that! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it should be more comprehensive, but you have to start somewhere. citizens will be grateful for any step that makes their daily lives easier, which means they don't have to run to interpreters, they don't have to certify a document a few times, they don't have to try to get 200 certificates in the country they're in, stamped, signed and who knows what else. this first step will allow us to introduce further facilities in the future. it is just that the member states must now make good use of this time. we can't waste it. we need to prepare well for this to actually serve our citizens.
in writing. millions of eu citizens study, work or live in a country of which they are not a national. however, in exercising their right to free movement, they often encounter administrative difficulties when submitting various official documents. many countries continue to recognise only their own documents or those of another country if they are notarized. work to abolish the requirement to legalise documents in this way and to reduce administrative formalities is therefore important. the principle should be adopted in the union that documents duly issued in one country are also valid in the other countries of the union. in order to prevent the falsification of documents and to confirm their authenticity, it should be provided that the administrative authority receiving a document may directly request, by electronic means, the authenticity of the document from the administrative authority issuing the document. the widespread use of this practice would make it easier for millions of eu citizens to move, study and work. i therefore consider the work on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on facilitating the free movement of citizens by simplifying administrative requirements to be important and i expect that it will not be prolonged.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – mr president, following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, for the first time any modification of the statute of the general court has to be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposal which we are addressing today meets the immediate efficiency and performance-related needs of the general court, and going beyond it seeks to strengthen the effectiveness of the european court system as a whole in a sustainable manner. i trust that its adoption will contribute to reducing the length of proceedings before the general court, and this in turn will reduce the risk that the union is found in breach of its duty, set out in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights, to rule on cases within a reasonable time. furthermore, only one jurisdiction – the court of justice will be responsible for ensuring uniform interpretation of the law by hearing all appeals. this will simplify the judicial structure of the union, enhance its overall efficiency and promote consistency in its case law. it is therefore important that the european parliament support the current proposal in order to allow the european court system to work in a more efficient manner.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are now close to the second stage of the reform of the court of justice of the european union. we had a political debate last year about the need for this reform. at the moment, this is just a consequence of our actions, a necessary consequence, which is to include the civil service tribunal in the court of first instance. the seven judges who have served on the civil service tribunal so far are judges who will not be new to the court of justice; they will be among the existing judges and therefore this change does not generate any additional costs but enormous benefits. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that until now the civil service tribunal judges have dealt exclusively with staff cases. no other matters could be entrusted to them, although these judges were often left without assigned cases to deal with. the change we are making, the second part of the reform, will allow firstly the transfer of labour cases to the court of first instance - so they are safe and will continue to be dealt with properly - and secondly the allocation of other cases to judges who will not be dealing with labour cases at that time, which has been impossible so far. this reform is obviously necessary because, as mrs danuta hübner said, it is important for the quality of the european judiciary. i therefore ask the court itself and the other institutions to remember that this is an important institution for all of us, that this reform will be assessed in the coming years because it has many opponents. i hope, therefore, that the review clause in the regulation will force everyone to make a proper assessment of the court's performance in the coming years, so that in a few years we can say whether we have made the right choices, whether we have made the right decisions or whether we may have been wrong. i think we're right.
mr. chairman, please! the absorption of the civil service tribunal by the european court of justice, one of its institutions, is, as mentioned in this debate, a fulfilment of the previous assumptions. but i would like to say that even this very brief discussion which has been going on for a dozen or so minutes here calls for a fresh look at the way in which this reform is to be implemented. there were very important arguments against this project, this reform. from within the court of justice - and therefore the judges themselves have serious doubts - there has been a question of costs. finally, all this should be placed in the context of the debate on the efficiency of the european court of justice, its accessibility and the openness and effectiveness of its decisions. frankly, after hearing the voices of colleagues from a wide variety of political parties, i would urge that we reconsider this reform before we take a decision in the vote. this is too delicate a matter to be rushed, and in this matter consensus, broad agreement is particularly needed.
in writing. this regulation follows the third regulation reforming the court of justice, which concerned the increase of the number of judges at the general court to 56, so that each member state could nominate two judges. this change was conditional on the civil service tribunal being wound up and its disputes returned to the general court, which is the subject of this report. the reform of the judicial system of the court of justice of the eu has been divided into three distinct stages. the first phase of the competition has 12 nominees. in the second seven judges will be transferred from the dissolved civil service tribunal, bringing the total number of members of the general court to 47 as of 1 september 2016. the third stage will be the appointment of nine additional judges in 2019. in conclusion, the procedure for the gradual increase of the number of judges of the general court will be completed in 2019, when the court of justice will consist of two judges from each member state, including seven judges from the dissolved european union civil service tribunal, who will join the general court as of 1 september 2016.
fifty years ago, bernadette devlin was sentenced to life in prison, but she was taken to the house of commons because she was an mp and her constituents could not be deprived of representation in parliament. in 1933, adolf hitler, with the support of two opposition parties, deprived the communists of the right to participate in the reichstag. a month later, both parties bitterly regretted this, for hitler had thus gained an absolute majority. at this point, after removing the mps from the three parties that supported the two opposition parties, mr. erdogan has a constitutional majority and can do whatever he wants. the two parties that supported it will also bitterly regret it. the question is, why are we, why are the union authorities supporting mr. erdogan? i can only see one explanation for this: out of that 6 billion, mr. erdogan has given some money to those members of the european union authorities who are negotiating with him. the latest decision of the bundestag has clearly shown that mrs merkel's influence is much less than it seems, and the bundestag members have done what they wanted and rightly accused turkey. and so you have to act, you have to speak the truth, and people who do things like mr. erdogan are threatening all of europe at this moment, because turkey can threaten europe more than these scattered masses of immigrants. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the eu has been a very naive in its trade policy. we have opened our markets while our firms cannot export due to trade barriers. our blind free trade policies have created massive unhappiness in our societies. industries close down, people lose jobs, incomes drop. populists are on the rise. the ground is shifting under our feet. something needs to change. massive dumped steel imports have just wiped out most of the uk steel industry. in response to a similar threat, the us has just adopted or imposed over 500% of duties on chinese imports. so what do we do? we still debate the lesser duty rule. the lobby of importers and service dominated countries prefer free trade ideology over recognising that we must protect the few industries that use anti-dumping. i am speaking to the free traders. please compromise on the lesser duty rule, otherwise in four years’ time we will have only protectionist parties sitting in the european parliament and the result will be much more severe for everyone involved.
mr. chairman, please! the world is not static, everything is changing, one could even say that the world is moving fast. and with that world, of course, comes the economy, all kinds of ways of operating in the global marketplace. the european union, on the other hand, has not reformed its market and trade protection instruments for 20 years, and has not even been able to tackle the reform it initiated for two years. it is quite characteristic of the community that everything takes months to a few years. the united states, for example, is doing much more and much faster. last year, for example, 64 procedures were initiated in the steel sector alone, compared with five times fewer in the european union 12. but i would caution against linking this subject we are discussing with the limitation of free trade agreements initiatives with other countries or other economic areas of the world. these are two different things, and don't put them under the same denominator. thank you very much. thank you.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the following oral questions to the council by renate sommer, renata briano, julie girling, frédérique ries, stefana ecka, linné engström, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season (o-000058/2016 - b8-0702/2016) and to the commission by renate sommer, renata girano, julie briling, julie girling, frédérique ries, frédérique ecka, linné ries, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season (o-000059/2016 - b8-0703/2016).
madam president! first of all, i would like to thank very warmly my colleagues, and in particular our colleague heidi hautala, who has been working for many months in a special group on administrative law issues. the fruit of this work is the project annexed to today's resolution - a very serious, very interesting project which i think the european commission should take very seriously - concerning an efficient, independent and well-functioning union administration. this is of course an innovative project and it is not surprising that some eu institutions, including the european commission, are very cautious about it. but i think sometimes you have to put something very new, very inspiring on the table to get the job done. this is to provide citizens and businesses, as well as the union's administration, with a comprehensive and horizontal approach to administrative proceedings. citizens and businesses will thus be able to exercise their rights and bring them to the eu courts, on the one hand, and the administration will be able to benefit from a clear and uniform set of rules, on the other. the proposal put forward by parliament is, of course, primarily an invitation to discussion between the eu administration and the citizens in order to find the best solutions for them. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the union can undoubtedly do more to promote european businesses and products in the world and to attract investors to europe by using economic diplomacy. i think that the meso-level, i.e. the level of countries and regions, is particularly important, as vice-president katainen said in february at the european centre for policy strategy seminar. but new tools and new concepts for economic diplomacy are needed. i would like to point out that economic diplomacy at eu level should take account of the interests of all member states and all regions of europe and that it should reinforce, not replace, the action of the member states in this respect. unfortunately, we all know that the economic reality in europe is not what we would like it to be. the gap between the countries of the european centre and the periphery is widening. economic diplomacy promoting economic contacts with non-european countries should be designed and organised to reduce these differences.
madam president! i agree with the diagnosis and prescriptions made at the beginning of this debate by commissioner katainen and by mr tajani. the collective strength of the eu institutions must of course be used to promote europe's economic interests in the world. i have come to this debate tonight because as the head of the delegation from the european parliament to iran, i have a very interesting field of observation, a very interesting case study. well, we certainly have a grand opening here of a great country with great economic potential. but what has happened since the nuclear deal was signed? 144 government visits from individual countries that compete with each other in this newly opened territory. this gives a picture of the tasks for the european institutions: to protect investment, to create a better investment area in this new country, to break down barriers for smes and to share information. this is undoubtedly the added value at european level of the 144 government visits and the countless private visits that are the result of individual countries competing for this brand new market. but there is another problem on our side, which sometimes occurs and which must be overcome: we will also be addressing certain values, the protection of human rights, which are not always in line with economic interests. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this very good debate. i am particularly glad to see mr tajani here, who is a genuine pioneer of new economic diplomacy. you launched this concept during your time in the commission and we are trying to continue and even further develop and try to learn from best practices how we could improve the efficiency of our economic diplomatic activities. there was a good question, asking what are the objectives of economic diplomacy. i will try to explain what we are doing. basically it elaborates or clarifies what our objectives are at the moment. for instance, we have had two very interesting high—level economic dialogues with third countries, and we will keep these on our agenda. firstly, the dialogue with china: i regularly meet vice—premier ma kai, together with other commissioners, and from the chinese side there are also other ministers. at those events we sometimes have discussions with the private sector. every once in a while we invite private companies to our dialogue just to hear what they are saying and what they are expecting from the eu, what they are expecting from china and what the priorities the private sector is asking of us are in order to improve the business environment. at the same meetings, for instance last time, last september in beijing, commissioner oettinger and commissioner bulc participated in the dialogue and discussed the cooperation of 5g. commissioner bulc also talked about the connectivity platform and we talked about potential chinese investment in europe. as a result of this, we have managed to finalise our technical work with the silk road fund which is interested in investing in europe more and more. so those are just a few examples of the fruits of high—level economic dialogue with china. just a couple of months ago we had a similar event in ankara and istanbul where turkey’s and the eu’s business delegations met each other and they also gave us ideas about what more the two parties could do in order to improve the business environment on both sides. there again, we had discussions on regulatory cooperation as well as on macroeconomic issues. commissioner moscovici joined us and we talked about r&d cooperation between turkey and the eu. so those are just a few examples of our current activities and clearly show some of our objectives. but of course, as i mentioned during the debate here, one of the priority areas is trade agreements with third countries. i should also mention development policy and investment – a combination of development policy, trade and investment cooperation, because many of the third countries which we are helping to reform themselves and which are an objective of eu aid are willing to become a partner to the eu rather than just an objective of development aid. there of course diplomacy plays a big role. that is one of the reasons why we are planning to establish some sort of fund, similar to the one we have here, efsi, which could support european investments to third countries. this is just one of the ideas. my final point is about sme cooperation. i have already mentioned trade deals but i have to add a couple of other issues. the role of networks of european business organisations in third countries is significant. i have met excellent chambers of commerce, for instance in china – they are our ears and eyes about what is happening on a daily basis in chinese trade issues – also in singapore, when i visited there, and in the united states and turkey. i am planning to visit the gulf region and also iran, which was also mentioned here earlier. but if the parliament has good ideas about how we could improve our help to smes, just let us know. we can make trade promotion trips inviting smes to participate, but is there anything else apart from what has been mentioned here? let us be innovative. let us think what we could do more and differently than we have done so far. i am sure that, as there are so many experienced meps who have experience on trade policies, on trade promotion for instance, you can devise something and let us know because i am open—minded on this issue. the more we can do in order to help our businesses to expand to third countries and trade and sell, the better. thank you very much for your ideas.
in writing. the european union, as the world's largest economy, should be able to conduct effective economic diplomacy, which has become the leading form of international relations in recent decades. there is ample evidence that effective economic diplomacy can be more effective than so-called hard power. as the commissioner rightly said in his speech, the vast majority of economic growth is now generated outside the eu and we need to make sure that, through our trade and investment contacts, the results of this growth are also more strongly felt in europe. this is why it is so important to support our entrepreneurs on the global market or to promote solutions that eliminate barriers on third country markets. the european external action service needs to work more closely with the european investment bank to create easily accessible sources of finance for european entrepreneurs planning to expand abroad. trade agreements negotiated by the eu with third countries are also part of economic diplomacy, provided that they guarantee genuine facilitation of access to the markets concerned for our companies and do not discriminate against particular economic sectors.
madam president! i would like to join in expressing my regret for the absence of commissioner bieńkowska. the manufacturers of rolling stock are very often one of the best examples of the economies of the member states and this is certainly the case for the company from my town in pesca, bydgoszcz. the success of this enterprise means many jobs, increasing r & d expenditure and an opportunity for the many small and medium-sized enterprises that are gathered around it. when planning the reindustrialisation of the european economy, we cannot ignore the potential of the rail supply industry. rail transport is the perfect answer to the need to find an economic and energy-efficient means of transporting goods and passengers, including on an intercontinental scale. in addition to increasing investment in the european union, we must ensure that our producers are treated equally in non-european markets and we must be more effective in combating unfair competition for our products. only such a balanced approach will ensure a stable outlook for the european rail industry in the years ahead.
madam president! the political situation in cambodia is undoubtedly worrying and requires strong action by the international community. the arrest and persecution of opposition figures, as well as human rights activists and members of ngos, are unacceptable and must be stopped immediately. i would also like to point out cambodia's exceptionally low score in the rule of law index published last year, where cambodia ranks third from the bottom. the cambodian people do not trust the work of their courts. they point to it as the most untrustworthy and corrupt institution in the country. at the same time, the union is the largest donor of development aid to cambodia. i therefore believe that if the cambodian authorities, despite the calls from their european partners, do not decide to return to a peaceful and constructive dialogue with the opposition and to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, then the development aid should be made conditional on progress in this regard.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today we focus on the difficult political situation in cambodia and the persecution and problems facing opposition members and human rights defenders. the issue is undoubtedly urgent and important, but in the text, which is supposed to deal with various aspects of the situation in the country, one very important topic children was missing. about 30% of the country's citizens live in poverty, and a large proportion of this number are the youngest. 10% of children do not go to school at all, and only 20% of girls attend the equivalent of secondary or high school. despite government regulations, it is estimated that about 45% of children between the ages of 5 and 14 are actually forced to work, and the conditions of this work often violate basic standards. about 23 percent of young girls in cambodia are married before they turn 18. these statistics are very alarming and i think we should not forget the plight of the youngest in this country. that is why i call on the external action service to give more attention to this issue - not just in cambodia, but in all the countries we are discussing in the human rights debate.
madam president! available data show that internal migration within the european union is still low. that means there's a lot of untapped potential. that is why i voted with great conviction today for the european parliament's report on a regulation to promote free movement of documents by simplifying the acceptance of official documents. the regulation covers all civil status documents and certain other documents, such as residence, nationality or a certificate of innocence. it provides for the abolition of the legalisation requirement and for measures to facilitate the acceptance of copies of documents certified as being true copies and certified translations. the most important element, however, is the introduction of standardised and multilingual forms for most of the official documents covered by the regulation. parliament also sought to extend similar regulation to school diplomas and certificates, as well as other documents of importance to employers, such as qualifications. this has not been achieved in the regulation under discussion today, and it is a pity, because it would have improved the flow of workers within the single market considerably. it is hoped that the positive experience gained from the operation of the regulation will prompt the governments of the member states to accept facilitations in the field of school diplomas and certificates in the near future. in conclusion, there has been significant progress and simplification of the procedures that european citizens must complete when travelling between member states, but there are still not enough of them.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the regulation is to abolish the legalisation and apostille requirement for official documents falling within its scope. a number of simplifications have been made with regard to certified copies and certified translations. the compromise text provides that the regulation should apply only to certain official documents, in particular those relating to civil status (e.g. birth, death, marriage, divorce, parenting, adoption) and certain other documents that citizens often need, such as residence, nationality and criminal records. however, given the doubts surrounding the regulation, i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement for persons is one of the key rights of eu citizenship. despite the fact that this right is firmly entrenched in eu law, many eu citizens who study, live, work or do business in another country encounter obstacles in their daily lives that make it difficult for them to exercise this right. the administrative formalities involved in authenticating in one member state official documents issued in another eu country are among the most frequently mentioned problems. the regulation identifies 13 categories of official documents, including birth, death, marriage, divorce and non-enrolment in the criminal register, which will be exempt from any form of legalisation. copies thereof certified as authentic shall also be accepted in all member states. multilingual standard forms will also be introduced to facilitate the translation of documents. the regulation of the ep and the council is an important step towards reducing costs, shortening the legalization process, while maintaining legal certainty. it is a response to the expectations of europeans to make their daily lives and contacts with the authorities of the member states easier.
in writing. ‒ i support actions that make it easier for eu citizens to travel. official procedures should be simplified. it's a pity that the agreement we have with the council doesn't solve all our problems. the main unexplained issue is the liberalization of regulations, for example, on diplomas and school certificates. i've decided to vote against the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is the fourth in a series on the reform of the court of justice, which aims to increase the number of judges at the court of justice to 56 in order to allow each member state to nominate two judges. the increase in the number of judges was made conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the referral of civil service disputes back to the tribunal. the number of judges of the general court at this stage of the reform will be increased by 7 judges of the civil service tribunal and will eventually reach 47. in his draft report, the rapporteur endorses the court of justice's proposal, proposing only a few minor technical changes, which concern:• the rules for referral of cases to the civil service tribunal;• changes to the court's rules of procedure and its internal organisation. i support the reform of the court of justice to make the european judiciary more efficient, but not by doubling the number of judges. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the resolution refers to the european parliament's view that the proposal should be presented by the commission in 2017 in order to provide certainty in the interpretation of the existing rules to the benefit of citizens and businesses. taking action would help to create greater transparency and accessibility. this would result in a general administrative law for the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, for those who deal with the eu institutions, and would cover aspects of conflict of interest, so that the drafting of legal acts is clear, simple and understandable. legislative, judicial and procedures for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts and non-legislative acts would be excluded from this scope. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. not seeing the glaringly contentious points of the resolution under discussion, i voted to pass it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this itre resolution is to draw attention to the situation of the european railway sector. the resolution recalls the strategic importance of the sector for job growth and innovation. the resolution draws attention to the promotion of further sme engagement in the rail industry, mainly through the shift2rail joint undertaking, a public-private partnership established under the horizon 2020 programme. the text is linked to the development of state-supported companies (e.g. china) in world markets and, gradually, also in europe. attention is drawn to the possible negative impact of this phenomenon on the european railway industry. the issue of china's met is mentioned in the resolution but without indicating whether or not met should be granted to china. i personally support the provisions of this resolution. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ producers of rolling stock and other materials needed for the construction of railway infrastructure are an important part of the economy in all member states. in many cases, these are highly innovative enterprises with many employees. this is why it is so important to develop a long-term development strategy for this industry so that it can play an important role in the reindustrialisation of europe. the favourable economic situation of the sector is based in particular on a high level of investment in railway infrastructure, which is effectively supported by european funds. however, there are already serious threats to the stability of production and hence employment in this sector on the horizon. the pressure on european producers from asian companies, which receive significant public support and gain further market advantage in the eu's public procurement market through low prices, is a major challenge. the change in the model for financing investment in the next budgetary perspective will be a major challenge, and will undoubtedly reduce the amount of funds available to member states. investments will have to be more thoughtful, innovation-oriented and justified by the possibility of making a profit. i agree with many of the points made in this report, which provides a good diagnosis of the challenges facing the railway supply industry. as a representative of the kujawy-pomeranian voivodeship, i am particularly concerned about the stable future of this sector, of which the bydgoszcz pesa is an important part.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to remind you, with reference to the speech we have just heard, that last week marked the 25th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of good neighbourliness between poland and germany. it was the fruit of a difficult reconciliation that had begun as early as 1965 with a letter from the polish bishops to the german bishops, which contained the famous words: 'we forgive and we ask forgiveness'. the signing of the treaty in 1991 was also made possible by the rise and victory of solidarity, by the unification of germany, by the efforts of the german chancellors and the prime ministers and ministers of the polish free government, but above all by the efforts of citizens on both sides of the border on the oder and the nisse, who clearly felt that agreement, cooperation and mutual trust were essential to them. and so what pope john paul ii announced here in the european parliament back in 1988 could come true, as he said: 'may europe once again breathe with two lungs'. and one more thing. this 1992 treaty translated the shared destiny of poles and germans, neighbours for centuries, into joint action in europe, and now it sets both nations a new task: what can we, poles and germans, do today for a common europe?
mr president, the people of congo have to endure once more unbelievable atrocities perpetrated by armed militias in the eastern part of the country. this was made possible by the period of political uncertainty concerning the transition of power. the democratic republic of congo (drc) constitution should be enacted as soon as possible, the free elections maintained within the country in terms of international involvement, the implementation of the march un resolution is necessary as well as the deployment of an enhanced mandate for monusco as soon as possible. i also think that in order to eradicate impunity the icc should be involved once more.
madam president! the statement made by my predecessor, representing italy, was very moving. well, let me put it this way: we should do everything we can to make sure that the un resolution is implemented. it is not possible for an organization that brings together all the nations of the world to issue a resolution that then becomes a mere slip of paper. the un has a clear conscience, but nothing is happening. we must do everything possible to ensure that the international criminal court holds those responsible for these crimes to account in an exemplary manner. europe cannot remain silent on this matter, it is a matter of our honour, it is a matter of our duty, especially to those countries which once had colonies in the areas where crimes and atrocities are being committed today.
madam president! in fact, each country has its own national identity, rich and proud history and national traditions. and every country protects those values. europe and the world are facing a dramatic time today: uncontrolled migration, radical extremism, terrorism. a lot of people are losing their lives. a lot of people are suffering. but we also have to be aware that integration of europeans with refugees is not possible without the willingness of the refugees to assimilate and adapt. integration without assimilation is pure utopia, it's wishful thinking. moreover, even accepting millions of refugees into europe will not solve this tragic problem. europe must therefore help to bring the conflict to its source, by providing financial, food, social and legal aid, by helping to build schools, hospitals, infrastructure and so on. moreover, the principle of the ordo caritatis should be borne in mind: first, to provide help, security and mercy to one's family, then to one's homeland, and then to another community.
a recent european commission communication on preventing radicalisation leading to violent extremism makes a number of recommendations. there is a strong emphasis on education in the european union based on common values. in addition to guidance on raising children in a spirit of diversity, teachers should be alert to the first signs of radicalization among students. the aim is to instill common values in young people, but unfortunately this is not sufficiently specified. while the european commission sees a link between radicalisation and recent terrorist attacks, it does not explicitly say that they are carried out by islamic extremists. the european commission should be better able to diagnose the situation, to turn away from misguided political correctness and to return to the roots of europe, namely christian values, and to articulate them loudly.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this first fisheries management plan under the new common fisheries policy (cfp) was hard fought and was the result of very difficult, long negotiations, in which parliament had to make many concessions. we did it in the trust that the provisions included would be enough to uphold sustainable fisheries in the baltic sea. this new plan must be put into action as soon as possible for setting total allowable catches (tacs) and quotas for the year 2017. it is crucial that the eu institutions act responsibly and show, now, that commitment to the principles is still alive. parliament has shown its commitment to sustainable fishing in the eu and to the future of the industry, and i must ask the commission and the council to do the same. that is why i have two questions: will the proposals from the commission for next year’s total allowable catch in the baltic be based on the scientific advice and the rules established in this new management plan; and is there any scenario where this new management plan and the rules within it to settle catches could not be used? it is crucial to use the new rules immediately, as the scientific advice regarding the western cod stock is very alarming. the stock has been under too much stress for a very long time, and so far the council has failed to follow the scientific advice. the results of this failure have now led to a piece of advice from the scientists more or less closing this fishery. luckily, the new baltic management plan has some new rules in place and safeguards to deal with such situations. after 10 months of difficult negotiations with the council and the commission, these negotiations gave us a plan that upholds and respects the objectives of the basic regulations. in the end, this plan will ensure that fishing activities in the baltic are conducted in a sustainable, reasonable and economically viable way, which will not put unnecessary strain on the environment – and now we will closely monitor the implementation of the plan.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the multiannual plan for the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks is a key document for the future of over 94% of the fish stocks caught in the region. it is the first multiannual plan in the european union to be based on the new common fisheries policy. the main good news is the so-called multi-species management, which takes into account the interactions between different species of fish. that's very good. we all know that there is an urgent need for the biological recovery of the baltic sea and that the current system must be effective. management must be sustainable and based on sound scientific knowledge. here are a few of my comments: the need for a regional approach in the formulation of the implementing rules for the plan should be taken into account, the area should be closed to fishing in order to protect spawning grounds and habitats based on up-to-date scientific knowledge, and the sources of funding should be identified in the event of temporary cessation of fishing, if such protective measures are applicable; fourth, so-called forage, i.e. industrial, catches should be clearly limited, and fifth, at least in poland, if wind farms are to be built in the baltic, this cannot be done in the best fishing grounds and spawning grounds and fish distribution areas. thank you, sir. i would like to congratulate you on a generally very good report.
in writing. cod, herring and sprat are the main species caught in the wild and are essential elements of the baltic sea ecosystem. scientific research shows that there are strong biological interactions between them. that's why i'm advocating a more flexible approach to resources. poland has for several years advocated the need for a multi-stage baltic sea management plan. as cod fishing has an impact on flatfish stocks, i believe it is appropriate to include in the plan the possibility of responding to the deterioration of flatfish stocks. the signals from the fishing community are alarming, and the cod situation is particularly dire. the feed stocks are extremely damaging here. i therefore particularly criticise the provisions of article 13, which leave too wide a tolerance for large-scale pelagic fisheries, including industrial fisheries. it is necessary to increase their transparency and to take action to minimise their impact on the baltic marine environment. the commission must take into account the joint recommendations of the baltic sea states. the commission's actions must be consistent with the provisions of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 on the cap and with the results of the work of the interinstitutional working group on long-term plans. the scope of the commission's power to adopt delegated acts with the treaty division of competences in the eu and the provisions on regionalisation contained in regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 should be subject to legal and substantive analysis.
madam president! we're talking about something very important here today. it would seem to be marginal, at least in comparison with the enormous problems facing the european union, the crises that are tearing us apart, the referendum in the uk tomorrow, but i think it is essential. it shows what the european union is, where it is going and what it will be in the future. a community that boasts and boasts all over the world that it is so humanistic, and that says that its foundation is equality and tolerance, comes to a day like today, when we rejoice that tomorrow we may vote the obvious, which should have been in the european union for a long time: why is there a social contract that created the states and then the states that later, in a process that began 60 years ago, created the european union? they exist to give people at least a chance at happiness. so far, in many areas of our lives, not just public but private, we've either denied or limited those opportunities. the rules we are talking about today, and - i hope - the decisions we will adopt tomorrow, are a small but important and necessary step towards building such a relationship between the state and the citizen, between the european union and european society, where the citizen is the subject and the european union and the member states are the institutions that are supposed to serve him and serve his happiness. i therefore conclude, madam president, by appealing to all those countries which have so far refused to accept these decisions - small, but necessary and necessary for the happiness of the people - to accept them.
in writing. the high mobility of eu citizens means that they are much more likely to marry in other member states with people from another country than their own. the commission identified the lack of certainty about the property rights of international couples as one of the main obstacles that eu citizens continue to face in their daily lives when they want to exercise their rights outside their own country. the main purpose of this proposal is to establish a clear legal framework in the union governing the conditions for determining the court having jurisdiction to hear disputes between international couples, the law governing property relations and to facilitate the movement of judgments and authentic instruments between member states. in conclusion, this regulation, covering jurisdiction and applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial property regimes, will be a useful instrument to put an end to the many misunderstandings and legal difficulties that international couples may encounter.
in writing. no breakup is easy. whatever the cause, it's a kind of personal failure. deciding to get a divorce is just the first step. later, when the property is divided, there are huge legal problems, especially for international couples. both regulations seek to remedy this situation by laying down rules on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of division of property. and, frankly, it doesn't matter if they're heterosexual couples or not. everyone has a right to access justice. these regulations do not introduce by the back door the recognition of one or another definition of marriage or the institution of partnership. the only possible consequence is the enforcement of a judgment given in one member state in the territory of another member state. and that is also covered by the public policy clause. i therefore feel sorry for the citizens of those member states which have not joined enhanced cooperation, such as poland. they will be worse off, they will not be able to benefit from a clear set of rules, which will make legal proceedings longer and more costly.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. in preparing this report, we consulted the commission's directorate-general for education and culture, european associations representing the various bodies involved in the education process, national organisations, including those operating at local level. we also consulted with the ministries of education in several countries. i have also tried to include in this report the results of evaluations commissioned by the european commission and various position papers published by the organisations. therefore, in order to avoid this report being an all-inclusive one, i decided to focus on three main points. as you'll notice, this report has three parts. one concerns some proposals on how to organise this framework for cooperation in the field of education. the second part concerns the quality of education and training. and finally, the third is a very topical but also, i will not hide it, a few words on this controversial topic: migration and education and training. i would like to highlight just a few points which i think are very important in this report and which deserve to be highlighted. they're particularly important to me. first, we focus on the role of the family in education. this seems to be a given, but a given that is often forgotten today, is that all of these data show the importance of the home environment for the development of a child's basic skills, and then the communication between school and parents, which is also important in such things as shaping civic attitudes and preventing radicalization. the other aspect that is being discussed is the community-based approach to education, which emphasises the importance of all local organisations and actors. unfortunately, it didn't pass a compromise amendment that we wanted to include religious organizations, local non-governmental organizations. and once again, we have emphasized the role of parents, their responsibilities and the need to ensure that they have an impact on the education of their children. this is important because the working groups that have already been set up do not yet include members of european organisations representing parents. finally, it is another aspect to acknowledge any successes of european policies in this respect, such as the bologna process, the student mobility programme or the teaching staff. i wanted to draw attention in this report - and this view was also shared by the counter-rapporteurs - to certain weaknesses of the process, namely the feeling in the academic community of ignoring the objections of academic teachers related to the bologna process. we therefore recommend that the university community be more involved in the et 2020 work cycle. more flexibility is needed in the use of modules or ect points and, most importantly, mobility outcomes should also be based on qualitative indicators, not just quantitative ones. and finally, the issue of migrants. i'm very brief on that, too. we focus on immigrants from outside europe, but all the data shows that the children of intra-european migrants also have great difficulty in adapting to society, and here education systems play a huge role. we also call for the inclusion of teachers of migrant origin in the education system, of course in exchange of experience, but also for the help of migrants, also intra-european, in adjusting to the requirements and standards of teaching in the host country. thank you very much, madam chair. i'm waiting to hear from my colleagues.
professor krasnodębski was right when he said that we need to increase the influence of parents in education. but there's only one way to increase it, and that's to give the parents money -- either in cash or in a tuition voucher -- so that they can pay for private school, because only then will the school do what the parents want. as long as the state pays for the school, it does what the bureaucracy and the teachers' unions demand, and the needs of the student are completely ignored. and i read a book once about education in switzerland, and the author said that in switzerland, schools are diverse: two-year, three-year, four-year, with different languages, etc., and yet the swiss education system is the best in the world. it never occurred to this idiot that it was the best because it was diverse, and the union would kill that diversity whether it wanted to or not. mrs costa has made it clear that europe is too diverse. i want to dispel the illusion that the more money that is spent on education, the worse it is. i remind you that the best level was during the national socialist occupation, when education was secret, very little money was allocated to it, and the level was very high. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
member of the commission. – madam president, first let me remind members that this area which we are talking about belongs to the area of the principle of subsidiarity. that means that even if we can identify common goals and objectives, we have to make coalitions with the member states. it is not the european commission that can direct the member states in those fields. we can generate a critical mass for change, but that is a different dynamic than in other areas. that is why i think it is very important to identify the common problems and define shared responses. that is what we are doing, and in this process the et2020 monitoring and assessment system is a very important, highly appreciated instrument: highly appreciated by the member states, because they take part in the working groups, they accept the results of the working groups and they follow the recommendations from the et2020 mechanism, and that is why i think it is a very important instrument in our hands to generate change in european education and training systems. there is a consensus that european education and training systems have two objectives: to produce employable people and to produce good citizens. both of them are equally important. we have to change our education systems in order to equip young citizens with better knowledge to make them good citizens and democrats and, at the same time, employable citizens as well. that is why we have to concentrate on all those issues which were raised here, and we have to find a good solution for that. we have tangible and concrete proposals and actions. we are dismantling barriers between countries via the bologna process, in the framework of erasmus+, by etraining systems, by online language courses, by student-mobility programs, by the european qualification framework... these are all instruments that can make the life of the european citizens easier. we also give help to the member states in handling the refugee crisis, with online courses, with social integration programmes, with funding for ngos, local communities and teachers and schools. we are taking part in the refugee integration process. of course we have a lot of problems, but together with you and the member states i am sure that we can address all those challenges in the future.
the rapporteur. thank you very much for a very interesting discussion. and i have one more request before you make your final decision on how to vote tomorrow. i would ask you to read the report carefully again, because it seems to me that some of the concerns you have raised are not covered by the report. for example, we are explicitly talking about social aspects in recital q, which deals with the educational deprivation and the poor integration of people in difficult social situations. the same is true of recitals d and j and paragraphs 42 and 41. so please note that this issue is raised. we also talk about education being a value in itself. for example, recital b already states that education and training cannot be directed solely to satisfying the needs of the market, but should be a value in itself. finally, the same arguments are made in recital c and in paragraphs 46, 47, and 48. please read this report a little more carefully. and here comes the third critical point. the commissioner has already spoken about this. some say we are giving too much power to the european commission. on the other hand, mr maragall, who is a co-author of this report as a co-rapporteur, says that there is no european added value here. one of the ladies said it wasn't european enough. but that's the legal situation. this is an area of education not covered by the european treaties. and it is et 2020 that seems to be the perfect example of cooperation, where there is at the same time a european dimension, voluntary, very flexible cooperation between member states, respecting the autonomy of member states. and basically, we should appreciate and encourage this kind of cooperation.
in writing. in a time of high youth unemployment, which also affects university graduates, i consider it crucial to review the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et 2020) in order to optimise its effectiveness. the evaluation carried out by the european commission in 2014 provided a number of recommendations by the ec and the council aimed at critically analysing the complex foundations for the operation and management of et 2020. the ep report discussed today also sets out a number of recommendations and policy priorities, to mention only the need for multi-level coordination and management of et 2020, to raise the quality of education and training and to respond to the challenges faced by european education systems in relation to migration flows within and outside europe. in the face of the increasing number of people entering formal education, in particular in terms of participation in higher education, over the last decade, and the growing inequalities in education systems, i recognise the need for a critical evaluation of the strategic education and training frameworks and the pursuit of educational benchmarks as critically important, but this should also be accompanied by a strong commitment to improving the quality of education at all levels.
i'm going to speak about the referendum that's going to be held in the uk tomorrow. from poland's point of view, it would obviously be bad if the uk left the eu, because only together with the uk can we block the stupidest ideas of the axis countries, that is germany, paris and berlin. but i understand very well that the british people will be guided by their own interests, and since it is indisputably better for the uk to leave the occupation of the european union, i will not worry if they do, because their interest is more important than my interest. so just because poland is still in the european union, doesn't mean that others have to carry the same burden. and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. two reports, two directives a very serious global problem. i congratulate you on these reports, because they are implementation reports. we need more and more of these reports, because we need to know what's happening with the decisions we make. climate change is a global problem, and that's the way we should look at it. i think that the current raising of climate targets by the european union and the setting of new binding targets is counterproductive. why would you do that? because it creates internal tensions between member states, between us, and we have a great job to do. we would like to see the paris commitments implemented on a global scale. they have no international legal basis today, so they need to be monitored. this is something the union as a whole should be strongly focused on. we should not create internal tensions over our climate goals, which are already the most ambitious in the world. one thing about renewable energy. there are indeed countries that do not give the right amount of attention to renewable energy aid, to support and also to pro-consumer energy. this needs to be clearly stated, but i think that four years before the target date of reaching our 2020 target, it is perhaps premature to point to specific countries without full justification. i believe that what we are doing in this area is the most important thing for the european union today. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i don't mind you talking like that. i agree with you completely. i am simply pointing out that the european union today has the most far-reaching objectives in terms of a global scale, because the problem is global. and the most important thing today is to look at how this is being implemented on a global scale. we will certainly, i am convinced, achieve our goals by 2020, and by 2030. we have internal commitments among member countries and we stick to them, but globally we know what happened with the kyoto protocol. we were practically alone. the point is to really try to do this internationally as one organism, 28 countries, so that others can also meet their paris commitments.
i read the reports, i listen to what the commissioner says, i listen to this speech in the chamber and i am terrified. you are complete amateurs. the average, any person working in the energy industry has a lot more knowledge than we do. you're full of shit! people in the nuclear, mining, or other industries are going out of their way to do everything as cheaply and as well as possible because the competition forces them to. any interference by politicians can only harm them. what we're doing is hurting the energy industry. i'll say it again: democratically we can control the head of the meerkat in the congo, maybe we can, but hands off the energy industry. an important field like energy cannot be democratically controlled because politicians and bureaucrats have no idea how it really works. thank you for your attention. and i also think that the european union should be destroyed because it's doing bad things to the energy industry.
in writing. the optimal solution for wind power plants is to work flexibly with high-efficiency gas turbines (not to be confused with gas boilers). this combination on a macro scale, i.e. for large power grids, may soon be the basis for the most promising and efficient power generation systems in the world. this solution requires more gas supplies to the eu market, and while it significantly reduces co2 emissions, it does not eliminate them. unfortunately, clean technology, which involves storing large amounts of electricity, is still not very efficient. an alternative to large networks is small, prosumer installations, which are mainly for local use. however, there is insufficient progress in the better use of renewable energy sources in stand-alone heating and cooling systems. more intensive development of the daytime heat storage technology and suitable designs, as well as of 'free cooling' installations that would be available on the market, is needed. the potential of geothermal energy and heat pumps is huge, but i believe it is under-exploited and requires more intensive research to reduce the costs of these technologies. it requires that consumers have access to the market for appropriate equipment and apparatus.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! who of us, having a treasure in his house that would sustain him for years, would bury it and take a life loan? that is what the itre report proposes. the green revolution is for my country, for poland, the elimination of coal and the transition to renewable energy sources. and so they're going into debt and pumping huge amounts of money into technologies that have not been proven to work. that's why i'm voting against it. just as i oppose the whole energy and climate package and the green revolution served up by the eu bureaucracy. 85% of poland's energy is produced from coal. no one should be forcing us to change. it's our decision and ours alone as a sovereign country. fifty years ago, this union was a coal and steel union. today, europe produces almost no steel, and the member states are being punished for coal. it's not allowed.
in writing. eu greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%. with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue. the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of 20% less co2 emissions. this shows that there is no need for a drastic tightening of climate policy, which is proving to be an obstacle to the eu's reindustrialisation. it is therefore worth recalling that the eu has assumed that by 2020 the industry's share of eu gdp should be 20%. the bureaucratic reporting of energy and the high energy prices for medium-sized businesses and private households are a cause for concern. the energy efficiency directive should play a key role in eu energy policy. however, it should be noted that the european union has achieved its 20% efficiency target by 2020, even without full implementation of the directive in most member states. this shows the strength of the market and the ability of member states to shape their own energy policies. the european union should not be tempted to promote climate and energy policy at the expense of industrial policy.
in writing. the european union has set a target of 20% renewable energy in relation to total energy consumption by 2020. i believe that those countries that have not yet achieved the goal set by europe should focus fully on the full implementation of the eu's recommended rules in order to achieve the intended results. the priority is to attract investors to the renewable energy market. moreover, foreign and domestic companies and national regional authorities should be encouraged to use the european fund for strategic investments. i think the market should have a readily available support system for renewable fuel producers, because that will maximize the benefits. it is of the utmost importance to strengthen consumer participation in the market. they should have more opportunities to produce and use energy themselves. the transition from oligopolistic to more democratic policies will be a more beneficial change in terms of market integration, which will in turn contribute to the development of renewable energy and cost reductions.
i'm resuming the hearing. hello, everybody. how are you? i welcome the members of the ukrainian parliament, the supreme council, along with the president of the ukrainian space agency.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
in writing. - given the seriousness of the problem, i voted yes. any issues related to tax evasion and tax avoidance should be clarified.
in writing. ‒ recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. bilateral trade between the eu and lebanon has been steadily increasing, with an average annual growth of 12,7% since 2008 and a total turnover of around eur 6,9 billion in 2014. the european union is lebanon's first trading partner, with annual trade accounting for about one third of lebanon's total trade. i voted to keep it that way.
in writing. ‒ recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. lebanon is a member of the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed), which supports economic integration and democratic reforms in all 16 of the eu's southern neighbours, i.e. north africa and the middle east. the partnership is an essential tool for building greater economic integration in the region. i am personally in favour of economic integration and partnership in all areas of the eu, which is why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the eu's european neighbourhood policy offers its neighbours the possibility of establishing privileged bilateral relations based on mutual respect for shared values such as democracy and human rights, the rule of law, the principles of good governance, the law of the market economy and sustainable development. in order to maintain the above-mentioned relations in bulgaria and romania, i voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i support the association protocol between the european union and the republic of lebanon. lebanon is a member of the euro-mediterranean partnership, which supports economic integration and democratic reforms in the european union's southern neighbourhood. bilateral trade with lebanon is steadily increasing and the union market accounts for one third of all lebanese trade.
in writing. ‒ the eu and monaco will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents, in line with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive (dac2) and the oecd global standards. the eu and monaco will exchange information from 2018 and will start collecting information from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets from which no tax is due. similar updates are made to the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and andorra. i welcome this update as the agreement is in line with the applicable eu legislation and global oecd standards. this will avoid double standards in the future. as a result, member states and monaco will be able to correctly identify taxpayers, manage tax rules in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and avoid unnecessary procedures. the information exchanged will not only relate to income such as interest and dividends, but also to account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those provided for in council directive 2003/48/ec. i support the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial data. the agreement is of particular relevance to the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement providing for the application by monaco of measures equivalent to those provided for in the union's savings tax directive. under the new agreement, eu member states and monaco will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents in their territories as of 2018, including information collected since 1 january 2017. the purpose of this agreement is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed.
in writing. ‒ the eu and monaco will automatically exchange financial information on each other's residents in accordance with the updated requirements of the administrative cooperation directive (dac2) and the oecd global standards. the eu and monaco will exchange information from 2018 and will start collecting information from 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets from which no tax is due. similar updates are made to the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and andorra. the econ committee has drawn up a report under the simplified procedure. the agreement is in line with the applicable eu legislation and global oecd standards. this will avoid double standards in the future. as a result, member states and monaco will be able to correctly identify taxpayers, manage tax rules in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and avoid unnecessary procedures. the information exchanged will not only relate to income such as interest and dividends, but also to account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the current agreement is an update of the agreement concluded between the european union and monaco in 2004. it will, inter alia, improve international tax cooperation. it will also make it possible to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance more effectively. therefore, i have voted to accept the contract.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco have concluded an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information. the agreement was concluded to improve tax cooperation and compliance with international rules. the agreement will make it possible to prevent tax fraud more effectively and, moreover, to increase the effectiveness of the law enforcement in the area of tax evasion. the agreement will be formally signed in 2016 and will automatically exchange financial information between the member states and monaco on residents of each other's territories. i believe that the purpose of signing this agreement is very important for the european union and for monaco, because thanks to this agreement, the tax administrations of the member states and monaco will be able to clearly identify taxpayers, and moreover, they will be able to enforce tax laws and assess the likelihood of tax evasion by taxpayers. i believe it is right to conclude the agreement as soon as possible, as this will speed up the implementation of the instruments set out in the agreement to help combat the activities of dishonest operators.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. this is the sixth application examined under the 2016 budget and the fourteenth application relating to the machinery and equipment sector and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1,8 million from the egf for belgium. the 488 redundant workers and up to 300 young people not in education, employment or training (neets) are concerned. personally, i fully support the actions undertaken under the strategy for new jobs. i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument to implement these strategies. because of the position i have just taken, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery). i support the proposal for a european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company, the relocation of a factory outside the eu or the global financial and economic crisis. this is the sixth application examined under the 2016 budget and the fourteenth application relating to the machinery and equipment sector and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1,8 million from the egf for belgium. the 488 redundant workers and up to 300 young people not in education, employment or training (neets) are concerned. this request follows the request of egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar concerning redundancies at the gosselies plant. actions implementing growth and jobs strategies are worth supporting. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to help workers who have suffered as a result of the changes in international trade. the tools provided for the redundancy support include training, vocational counselling and support for business creation. i've decided to vote to accept the motion.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transpose into union law the measures contained in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings in 2012 and 2014. the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna was established in 2006 and entered into force in 2007. in order to ensure a uniform and effective application throughout the eu of all measures contained in the recovery plan adopted in 2012-2014, this proposal will incorporate them into the regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the proposal includes technical measures such as rules governing the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the number of bluefin tuna and the number of bluefin tuna released, rules on live bluefin tuna transfer operations and caging, as well as requirements for the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme and catch reports. i support these resolutions. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. i strongly support the plan to restore bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the application throughout the european union of all measures contained in the bluefin tuna recovery plan is essential for consistent and effective action in this area. the present proposal is intended to transpose into union law the technical measures contained in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transpose into union law the measures contained in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings in 2012 and 2014. the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna was established in 2006 and entered into force in 2007. iccat is the regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas to which the union is a contracting party. in order to ensure a uniform and effective application throughout the eu of all measures contained in the recovery plan adopted in 2012-2014, this proposal will incorporate them into the regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the proposal includes technical measures such as rules governing the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the number of bluefin tuna and the number of bluefin tuna released, rules on live bluefin tuna transfer operations and caging, as well as requirements for the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme and catch reports. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) adopted a multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean at its 2012 and 2014 meetings. the resolution aims to ensure the uniform application of the plan throughout the european union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna are not reduced.
in writing. ‒ the main premise of the commission's conclusion that a multi-faceted management plan for the baltic sea is needed is correct. a multi-species approach is more effective than species-specific management. the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the stability of the livelihood of fishermen. at the same time, this management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries. it should also be noted that the plan is the first of its kind in the highly sensitive baltic sea ecosystem. in fact, it can be seen as a 'production in progress' as researchers are working on more advanced multi-species approaches which may be necessary to include in the plan at a later stage. it is therefore important that the first review is carried out relatively early, especially as the multi-level management plan is a new and evolving concept. i believe that the first review of the plan should take place three years after its entry into force and if the plan has positive effects, it should be reviewed after five years. this will also provide the desired flexibility in the implementation of the plan. in view of the above and its consequences for the baltic sea ecosystem, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007. i support the creation of a multi-species management framework for cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, where these three species are mainly fished. the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting these resources was published by the european commission as early as 2014. multi-species management for the baltic sea seems to be a more effective plan than managing each of these fish species separately. the proposed plan will ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, which will directly translate into a stable livelihood for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the main premise of the commission's conclusion that a multi-faceted management plan for the baltic sea is needed is correct. a multi-species approach is more effective than species-specific management. the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the stability of the livelihood of fishermen. at the same time, this management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries. the plan is the first of its kind in the highly sensitive baltic sea ecosystem. in fact, it can be seen as a 'production in progress' as researchers are working on more advanced multi-species approaches which may be necessary to include in the plan at a later stage. it is therefore important that the first review is carried out relatively early, especially as the multi-level management plan is a new and evolving concept. the first review of the plan should take place three years after its entry into force and, if the plan has a positive impact, it should be reviewed after five years. this will also provide the much-needed flexibility in the implementation of the plan. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union's multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat is the first plan under the new eu fisheries policy to take account of interspecies interactions. until now, the union has managed individual species that could have led to their extinction in order to protect the stocks from overfishing. this approach did not take into account that cod prey on herring and sprats, and that sprats feed on cod eggs. in practice, this means that the size of cod shoals affects the size of herring shoals and sprats, and vice versa. the basic principle of the new management plan, which takes account of interspecies dependencies, is to establish ranges within which the council can set fishing limits and catch quotas. management is to be based on the most up-to-date scientific data on the state of fish stocks, interactions between species and any other aspects of the ecosystem and fisheries. the new law is designed to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of the resources and to guarantee stable fishing opportunities and livelihoods for fishermen. this could significantly improve the situation of polish fishermen, among others. the plan will also ensure that fishing activities in the baltic are sustainable, sensible and, above all, economically viable, without imposing too much pressure on the environment. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ cod, herring and sprat are the main species caught in the baltic sea, accounting for nearly 94% of all catches. it is therefore vital to develop a new fisheries management programme that is relevant to today's challenges. the previous plan, dating from 2008, is not adapted to the current situation and did not include herring and cod. a new and comprehensive baltic sea fisheries management plan covering all species should be developed. this resolution is a response to the challenges of our time, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the regulation is to establish a clear legal framework in the eu for the determination of jurisdiction, the applicable law, and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and property matters. they do not cover matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of the marriage, maintenance obligations and succession. the main controversy with this package is that the decision authorising enhanced cooperation obliges member states to commit to two instruments simultaneously - one on partnerships and the other on marriages. a number of member states still do not have a partnership institution (italy, bulgaria, romania, slovakia, poland, lithuania, latvia) and in order to have the effect of the matrimonial property regulation, they must accede to both regulations implementing enhanced cooperation and agree to recognise the effects of a partnership institution which they do not recognise under their national law and which may be considered contrary to their public policy (e.g. the principle of the protection of marriage and the family). because of the controversy, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to establish a clear legal framework in the eu for the determination of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and property matters. they do not cover matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of the marriage, maintenance obligations and succession. within the framework of the regulation, mutual recognition of administrative documents must not be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. this regulation may not impose on member states the harmonisation of their national family law, including matrimonial property regimes. this solution raises concerns in the context of article 4 (2) teu, which guarantees member states respect for their national identities, in particular as regards the definition of the institutions of family law whose effects member states wish to recognise under their legal systems. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the jurisdiction and the law applicable to international marriages should remain with the eu member states. the changes made compared to the 2011 twin application on registered partnerships are to be welcomed. but they are not enough. moreover, the resolution does not define marriage, which means that it can include same-sex unions, which is unacceptable for other member states, including poland. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to establish a clear legal framework in the eu for determining decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. this solution raises concerns in the context of article 4 (2) teu, which guarantees member states respect for their national identities, in particular as regards the definition of the institutions of family law whose effects member states wish to recognise under their legal systems. the draft authorisation decision also raises doubts as to its compatibility with the principle of sincere cooperation between the european union and the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today endorsed the second proposal in this area on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments on the property consequences of registered partnerships. simplification of procedures will facilitate the designation of the court with jurisdiction to hear cases concerning the property of international couples, thus putting an end to costly proceedings conducted in parallel in different member states. the new rules will apply in the 18 member states which have declared their willingness to undertake the so-called enhanced cooperation, to which poland unfortunately does not belong. the european commission estimates that 16 million international couples live in the 18 eu countries covered by the above cooperation, and this regulation will be a useful instrument for them to provide legal protection and easier access to justice.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to establish a clear legal framework in the eu for the determination of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the european parliament, at its vote at its strasbourg session on 9 june 2016, gave its consent to the decision on enhanced cooperation in the area of matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. the main controversy is that the decision authorising enhanced cooperation requires the member states to be bound by two instruments at the same time, one on partnerships and the other on marriage. a number of member states do not recognise the institution of a partnership and their effect under the matrimonial property regime requires accession to both the enhanced cooperation regulations and consent to recognise the effects of an institution of a partnership which they do not recognise under their national law and which may be considered contrary to their public policy. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that violence in eastern congo claimed the lives of 1,116 people between october 2014 and may 2016, while another 1,470 people were abducted and 34,297 families were forcibly displaced or separated. these mass killings in eastern congo are the result of a complex interplay between politics, ethnic divisions and conflicts over resource extraction. the country is in a state of political turmoil after president kabila, who has been in power since 2001 and is constitutionally obliged to step down before the end of the year, was accused of delaying the presidential elections due in november to prolong his rule. the draft ecr resolution calls on the drc government to ensure the security of all its people and to resume joint operations under the fardc and monusco missions to neutralise armed groups in eastern congo. it also calls for an international investigation that can help identify the perpetrators and accomplices and the instigators of the massacres. the ecr resolution also reiterates its call on the drc authorities to explicitly commit to respect the provisions of the constitution in order to hold elections in a timely manner by the end of 2016. i fully agree with the resolution's call for respect for human rights and democratic principles in the drc, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing humanitarian and military crisis in the drc has already led to the deaths of some 5 million people, and the security and human rights situation continues to deteriorate, particularly in the east of the country. unfortunately, despite numerous acts of cruelty by both the rebels and the state armed forces, president kabili remains insensitive to the appeals of the international community. as a result, the country is on the brink of collapse, with over 7 million people in need of immediate humanitarian assistance. the european parliament, in its resolution, in addition to assessing the current situation in the congo, called on the parties to the conflict to immediately cease the use of violence, lay down their arms, release children from the ranks and promote dialogue for a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict. the document also stressed the responsibility of the congolese government to ensure security throughout the country and to ensure the protection of its citizens. in the resolution, parliament also called on the union and its member states to continue to provide assistance to the congolese people in order to prevent death and improve the living conditions of particularly vulnerable groups. i believe that parliament's resolution sends an important and unambiguous message that the situation in the congo must improve and that the authorities must start taking responsibility for the fate of their own citizens, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the massacre in eastern congo because i believe that concrete action must be taken to prevent the violence in that part of the world from continuing. thousands of people were forced to flee their homes to save their lives. many people have been killed. there's been violence against women and children for years. despite the protection of un troops, the people living there cannot feel safe. this situation has led to an increase in civilian casualties. i believe that we must stop the genocide that is still spreading in the eastern part of the congo by taking the appropriate steps to stop the killers operating there.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has announced a refined set of priorities for european cooperation in education and training. education and training is important because it helps people to acquire the knowledge and skills they need to become competitive and innovative workers. furthermore, education and training can play an important role in the development of broad-minded, sensitive and inquisitive people, as well as responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity and a thorough knowledge of their culture and heritage. the report aims to strengthen the cooperation between working groups and directorates-general or high-level groups, define the mandates for the new generation of working groups, and set out the structure of their work and the results to be achieved. it is important to involve more independent experts in the field of education. a close dialogue between the commission, the member states and education stakeholders is necessary to ensure real action. much attention has been paid to the needs of different categories of learners, such as those from ethnic or religious minorities, poor children or children from migrant backgrounds. the report calls for a qualitative change in mobility policy, addressing the problems that arise in accelerated intra-european mobility and that arise for national education and training systems from the current refugee crisis. i agree with the report. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european framework for cooperation in education and training (et 2020) by zdzisław krasnodębski deserves support as it addresses the eu's key activity in the field of education policy, linking the labour market and education sectors. it draws attention to the main challenges facing the eu in this area: the problem of educational deprivation in migrant and low socioeconomic status environments, the lack of links between higher education and vocational education and training and research institutions and the economy, and the huge demand for digital skills necessary to navigate in a digitalised world. i regret that this last aspect - the need for new skills - is given such a modest place in the report, when experts and the european commission perceive new skills as a topic that deserves a separate agenda, considered to be a landmark in the context of the future of the european union. the report rightly recommends that universities be more involved in the et 2020 work cycle; it stresses the importance of intra-eu mobility and high-quality early childhood education, which has a significant impact on further stages of education and professional functioning. positive messages are also present in the report calling for non-discrimination and facilitation for migrants, refugees and asylum seeking students. at the same time, the report calls for action to address the uneven migration rates within the eu, which are leading to brain drain in eastern and southern european countries.
in writing. ‒ education and training are important because they help people to acquire the knowledge and skills they need to become competitive and innovative workers. furthermore, education and training can play an important role in the development of broad-minded, sensitive and inquisitive people, as well as responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity and a thorough knowledge of their own culture and heritage. the report aims to strengthen the cooperation between working groups and directorates-general or high-level groups, define the mandates for the new generation of working groups, define the structure of their work and the results to be achieved. it is important to involve more independent experts in the field of education. a close dialogue between the commission, the member states and education stakeholders is necessary to ensure a real follow-up to the recommendations, focusing on improving the quality of education at all levels with a view to designating teacher education actors as one of the new priority areas of et 2020. much attention has been paid to the needs of different categories of learners, such as those from ethnic or religious minorities, poor children or children from migrant backgrounds. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ european cooperation in education and training, which was adopted in 2008, is voluntary. this strategy takes a lifelong learning perspective to ensure coherent education and training at all stages of life, from early childhood to old age. in addition to emphasising lifelong learning strategies, et 2020 will also focus on promoting equality, social inclusion, innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship among europeans. the statistics show that 8 years after the approval of et 2020, some progress has been made, but not in all areas. the employment rate of people immediately after graduation is particularly problematic at present. the european parliament's report rightly highlights the existing problems with the implementation of the strategy and points to the need for further action by eu member states to improve cooperation in education and training. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ the 2009 renewable energy directive requires progress reports every two years. the progress report, which is currently under discussion, is a mid-term review of the directive and contains a preliminary evaluation of the directive under the refit framework. the european commission's report found that 25 member states are on track to meet binding renewable energy targets, and five have already met or are about to meet their targets. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are proportionate to the objective of the measure and that the aid is necessary to achieve the objective of the measure. the ini report, while stating that the definition of member states' energy mix is a national competence, also made several references to binding national targets and taxation, criticised the lack of country-specific recommendations, called for a greater role for the commission in monitoring member states' actions by increasing its supervisory capacity and proposed an increase in the eu's renewable energy targets. i cannot agree with many of the points in the report, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the progress report on the renewable energy directive adopted in 2009 and currently under debate is a mid-term review of the directive and contains a preliminary assessment of the directive under refit. the european commission's report found that 25 member states are on track to meet binding renewable energy targets, and five have already met or are about to meet their targets. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are proportionate to the objective of the measure and that the aid is necessary to achieve the objective of the measure. the ini report, while stating that the definition of member states' energy mix is a national competence, also made several references to binding national targets and taxation, criticised the lack of country-specific recommendations, called for a greater role for the commission in monitoring member states' actions by increasing the scrutiny capacity, and proposed to increase the eu's targets for renewable energy. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ agriculture is a special sector, not only because of its strategic importance in producing and delivering food to the market, but also because it is a very important supplier of raw materials to industry and, increasingly, to the energy sector. this issue is of particular importance in the context of the union's efforts to reduce its energy dependence, which is 50% imported. the eu is now the world's largest energy importer, with energy-related expenditure of around eur 400 billion per year. moreover, in the context of climate challenges, agriculture and forestry are sectors with a huge natural potential to capture co2 from the air, in addition to carbon dioxide emissions from production processes, which should be taken into account when making the relevant conversions. it is therefore worth encouraging research and innovation in the development of bioenergy installations and avoiding excessive administrative burdens and difficulties that would hamper the development of this sector, which also has significant potential for creating new jobs. the possibility of selling surplus energy to the electricity grid and designing a system that would buy energy from such sources in the first place could be of great importance for the development of rural areas now and in the future. a stable mechanism for individual energy producers providing price predictability in the longer term is also likely to be necessary for the proper development of the sector of such energy.
in writing. ‒ the 2009 renewable energy directive sets a target of 20% of renewable energy in final energy consumption by 2020 and allows member states to decide how they promote renewable energy in their own country. according to the commission's report, most member states are on track to meet the 2009 target and more than 15% of energy in the eu is already produced from renewable sources. however, some eu countries have and will have considerable difficulties in achieving their plans, due to the nature of their economies. the european parliament report noted that the union needs a coherent long-term strategy to secure future investment in renewable energy. the document also stressed the importance of access to capital and proposed new financial mechanisms, in particular in terms of administrative facilitation and support schemes.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to rethink its energy policy. renewable energy is a good way to diversify energy sources. however, it is not possible to impose regulations on all member states which will interfere with their energy basket. all the rules must be adapted to the possibilities of the individual member states of the european union. it is not sensible to adopt any directive which does not take this into account. that is why i did not support the resolution.
we voted against both energy reports and it is a source of outrage that a bunch of dilettantes and ignoramuses are taking the floor and making decisions on such vital matters. under the occupation of the european union, europe is not developing, europe is lagging behind. how can we grow when gas in america is four times cheaper than in europe, when in china it is three times cheaper than in europe? how can europe compete in these conditions? not only do i think the european union must be destroyed, but i think those who are so propagandistic about this fight against global warming, who are destroying european energy, should, after europe is liberated from the occupation of the union, be brought to justice, be actually convicted for what they have done to this once leading region in the world.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%. with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue. the report calls for a revision of the directive to make it a more coherent piece of eu law the report offers a starting point in this area, e.g. the exchange of best practices between member states and new funding opportunities (e.g. from the juncker plan). although i am able to support these declarations, i voted against the report because of the repeated calls for binding energy efficiency targets at eu and national level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. i would like to point out that poland has agreed to a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. but i think that when the polish president signed this political goal, he didn't know how this efficiency would be counted. i don't think he would agree that it would be determined for the whole country by a physical method, as if it were some kind of machine, and the economy is a dynamic mechanism that develops. per capita energy use in poland is among the lowest in the eu. it is well known that the prosperity of eu countries is proportional to their per capita energy use. i ask: is this policy of restriction aimed at lowering the standard of living in poland? the reduction of energy use beyond 2030 as an efficiency indicator could only be attributed to the then existing and unchanging economy. this was and still is a big mistake introduced into the efficiency directive. the best way out of this trap would be to relate the efficiency growth rate to the initial and final gdp in the form of the appropriate ratio, expressed as a percentage.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%. with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue. the report calls for a revision of the directive to make it a more coherent piece of union law. the report offers a starting point in this area, e.g. the exchange of best practices between member states and new funding opportunities (e.g. from the juncker plan). unfortunately, there are repeated calls for binding energy efficiency targets at eu and national level. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 is one of the eu's key energy policy objectives. action in this area is important because of the economic cost of energy production, environmental and trade issues (half of the eu's energy needs come from imports). developing energy efficiency schemes stimulates the search for new and innovative solutions, which in turn stimulates the european labour market and brings climate and environmental benefits. one area where efficiency gains are particularly important is the housing sector. this requires investments to modernise existing buildings and incentives to increase energy savings in heating and cooling systems. in the longer term, these changes also lead to better and more efficient resource management, which also translates into real savings. improving energy efficiency should provide an attractive opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to increase their competitiveness by reducing their expenditure on different energy sources. in a social context, better use of energy resources and the provision of energy at reasonable prices are key elements in the fight against energy poverty in the eu. however, it should be borne in mind that energy efficiency improvements are intended to reduce energy consumption while maintaining living and productive standards, and are not intended to be a pretext for wasting energy.
in writing. ‒ consumers must be prepared for huge increases in energy prices if the union takes the fast track suggested by the left-wing political groups in the european parliament on energy efficiency policy. the 40% energy savings that these parties are hoping for are extremely expensive and difficult to achieve in a short time. the efficiency directive has already generated significant progress. i am very much in favour of a policy of greater energy efficiency, but it should be a policy that motivates energy efficiency. however, i am against a ban on energy use in general, which would be the case if we blindly followed the unreal transcripts of the parliament's report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. in addition, in order to achieve greater energy efficiency, in addition to bans and prohibitions, better coordination and cooperation between member states is needed. for these reasons too, i have decided to vote against the european parliament's report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have to say, i'm disappointed in the debate. it's become a very bad thing, as far as brexit is concerned, very bad, very dangerous, but not for britain, because she's certainly going to be able to cope and there's no need to shed those crocodile tears over the poor british people here. it has become a bad and dangerous thing for us, for the european union. this is one of the worst things that has happened in the history of european integration. in the meantime, what's going on? you're playing the same show that's been playing here regularly. the same words, the same twisted faces, the same insults, only maybe in greater intensity. i'd rather hear something else. what have we done wrong, what have those who run this union done wrong, what has the european commission done wrong and how does it hope to fix it, what has the majority that rules this parliament done wrong? because the fact that you are playing that old song, that the nationalists are guilty, that the chauvinists are guilty, that the nationalists are guilty, means that the state does not accept any evidence of reality at all. no matter what happens, you guys keep saying the same thing. i'd like to know what's going to happen next, because things are looking very dangerous. it is said that man is the only creature that can learn from his mistakes. this is a general truth, but after today's debate i wonder if this truth also applies to those who govern the european union.
in writing. bad for britain and bad for the union, the result of thursday's referendum showed us two things clearly. first, the rhetoric used for years by many member states to blame the union for all kinds of difficult and socially unpopular decisions is beginning to bear fruit. second, the referendum showed how effectively populists can manipulate citizens by fueling negative attitudes and spreading false information. but i hope that we can turn this difficult situation into a positive one. first of all, we must be determined to remind citizens of the great value of the european union, the guarantee of its security and prosperity. moreover, the example of the referendum in the united kingdom provides a glimpse of the methods used by populists, who, the day after achieving their goal, find that their political promises are misunderstood and untrue.
in writing. in a referendum on thursday, a majority of british citizens voted to leave the european union. there is no doubt that the resulting brexit will have a significant impact on the future relationship between the countries of the old continent and the united kingdom. i'm very sorry that this happened. but nothing happens without a reason, and the blame always lies on both sides. the union is not a perfect organisation, it still struggles with overregulation and red tape, for example. moreover, the community's increasing 'socialisation' is weakening its competitiveness on the global market, and in the community itself, the ambition of the middle class and the strengthening of a demanding attitude in society. there are also many objections to particular eu policies, such as the extremely restrictive climate policy or the expansive agricultural policy. however, i believe that the continuation of the process of european integration should continue to be supported, because it brings real benefits to millions of europeans every day. the union must not fall into a state of disarray, but must instead make efforts to reform itself in order to improve its functioning. it is also of the utmost importance to promote and perpetuate the fundamental values on which the community is founded. this is the only way to ensure the future of europe.
in writing. the european union is a project that needs clear leadership and the commitment of all member states. the uk decision is therefore a step backwards and the lessons to be drawn from this are obvious. politicians should take a warning from prime minister cameron, whose wave of populism brought him to power and then removed him from office. this is an interesting chapter in the history of the european union, with difficult decisions to be made, but also clear statements about what the european union should look like in the future.
mr. chairman, please! i'm surprised at the conclusion, as well as the reasoning. i wanted to point out that last week the conference of presidents decided that there would be no debate and you were represented there. i also wanted to emphasize that there is nothing happening in poland that could justify another, i emphasize, another debate on the situation in poland. we had a debate not so long ago, not more than two and a half months ago. i think that such a push, however, and i stress, by poles and not only poles, as an interference in the internal affairs of a democratic country will have the opposite effect of what you intend. i believe that we should listen to the first vice-president of the european commission, mr timmermans, who said that the solution to this situation would actually be found in poland. that is the kind of talks that are taking place at the moment, and that are also taking place between the polish authorities and the european union authorities. i think that this kind of pushing for these kinds of conclusions and this kind of debate right after brexit, which the honourable member also mentioned, would be seen as a rather inappropriate intervention by the european parliament. i think that most members, especially in the light of what has happened in the united kingdom, will not agree with this attempt to put a major member state against the wall. i'm against this debate on the merits.
madam president! i have said many times that integration without assimilation is pure utopia and wishful thinking, especially in terms of the so-called multidimensional integration of refugees into the european labour market. in my opinion, europe should first ask refugees the fundamental question: are you willing, are you ready and are you committed to respecting the legal order and general principles of the country you are coming to, and therefore to respect the labour laws, culture, traditions and customs? because if refugees don't follow the legal order and established customs, we can't guarantee a fair and equal labour market. so the sine qua non of any integration into the labour market is the assimilation of refugees and the concrete will of both sides.
it should be noted that we are talking about refugees, people who are fleeing war, who want to save their lives and the lives of their loved ones. so what has happened in europe today that more and more people are not only against immigrants, but against refugees? why is xenophobic sentiment on the rise? first, everyone who comes to europe must accept and respect our european culture, traditions and values. without it, there's no chance of acceptance. secondly, let's not forget that the european union is facing high unemployment, immigration of its citizens. europeans do not understand why their rights and social assistance should be - or even sometimes already are - less than the assistance given to refugees. it's hard to find good policies today that fight the social exclusion of refugees. but without language learning, without educating refugees, especially women and children, without an honest answer to the question of why more and more europeans are against immigrants and refugees, without understanding and acceptance of the people of europe, any policy, even the best policy, is doomed to failure.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: report by ms eleonora forenza on behalf of the committee on international trade on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility (2015/2038 ((ini)) (a8-0217/2016) and report by ms tiziana beghin on behalf of the committee on international trade on a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment (2015/2105 ((ini)) (a8-0220/2016).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i have three issues. first of all i have a general problem with the notion that free trade is naturally beneficial to the eu and that it automatically brings prosperity and jobs. i do not oppose free trade as such but i do not like how easily we have come to accept that free trade is good as some self-evident truth. the second point i would like to make is that there is a general lack of knowledge about eu trade policy on the part of our constituencies. this prevents our trade policy from being effective. outside of brussels, people and companies find out about our trade policy initiatives too late to be able to influence the outcome. we must find a way to inform them of our trade initiatives in time so they can fully participate and shape these policies. and finally, we need to have a mechanism to verify the input of the brussels trade associations so that they truly represent eu industry and they speak on behalf of eu industry. we have to be certain that these associations really represent the interests of our domestic industries.
mr. chairman, please! human trafficking, human trafficking -- these are specific issues that we need to ask about. i would like to ask the european commission whether we know what happened to the thousands of children who have been lost on the migration routes or elsewhere in europe; whether these children were victims of human trafficking, whether they were used to smuggle other people, or whether the worst, something even worse (mikolášik spoke about this a moment ago) happened to them. we still do not know what happened to them. if we want to take these problems seriously, we have to seek and demand answers to these questions. and above all, we cannot allow social unrest to increase. here in this room, mass immigration has been called refugees many times. and we know today, and we just heard from our friend, how big a deal it's become.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's leadership is proclaiming the rule of law and breaking it itself in relation to poland, my country. the treaty on european union is clear: it is the governments of our countries - and only if 22 of them express this opinion in the european council - that can accuse a country of violating eu values. the european commission can only make a request and nothing more. meanwhile, your interference in the affairs of our country, your conscious or unconscious fomenting of political conflict in poland strikes most at poles with independent views, strikes most at those who want to formulate their own position. and that your real function is a measure of the real attitude of the european commission and its leadership to the rule of law, to political freedom and to democracy.
mr president, i welcome the fact that on 1 july 2016 the council prolonged the economic sanctions targeting russia in response to moscow’s actions destabilising the situation in ukraine. in 2015, let me recall, all 28 eu member states decided unanimously to link the duration of the sanctions to the complete implementation of the minsk agreement. for now, however, not only have we not seen any particular improvements in eastern ukraine, but for the last several days we have heard more about further casualties of attacks of the separatist forces backed by russia. it is a great surprise for me that from many eu member states we can now see and hear voices telling us to weaken or even stop sanctions targeting russia. i call on the council and the commission to once more reiterate that any weakening of the sanctions is strictly dependent on the full implementation of the mink agreements by russia. on this issue we have to be determined and united. this is a matter for our security.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, having listened carefully to the contributions, i think we have a few lessons to draw from the dutch presidency. first of all, we can only achieve something if the three institutions involved in taking decisions all take their responsibility and do not blame the others when things do not work. we are all responsible for the end result of what we do, and we should stop claiming success in national capitals and blaming brussels if something goes wrong. brussels, as a metaphor, is all of us – including the council and its members. secondly, i would argue, given what was said this morning here by you and by prime minister rutte, that indeed it cannot be business usual, but at the same time, what was agreed between the three institutions on the priorities of the commission is a good basis for not continuing with business as usual but rather doing the things we all agreed in the three institutions should be our priorities: getting the internal market to function better, advancing on the digital single market, doing more and better regulation, making sure the energy union gets going and making sure we get the issue of migration under control in a sustainable way. these are the priorities of a commission that has chosen to be big on big things and small on small things, and this is also the way forward in the near future. thanks to the dutch presidency, we can build on a basis that will allow us to choose these priorities and give them concrete results. the only thing that can convince wary and unconvinced citizens is concrete results in solving the problems they face every day and problems that, very often, can no longer be solved just at the national level. if i may: if there is one thing we see after the british referendum, it is that people do not believe that they can get control of their lives back again within the european union. that is why some chose to say, ‘ok, this is not working, let us try something else’. whether that something else is going to work remains to be seen, but our task as europeans is to prove that we can deliver the results for people who want to be able to be optimistic about their position, about their children’s future and about their grandchildren’s future. that should be our task. that is where i think the three institutions should be working together very closely indeed. thank you very much to the dutch presidency for a job well done. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank frans timmermans of the commission for his very kind words. mr timmermans, i do think you are absolutely right. it is about the three institutions working together, exactly as esther de lange also said in her short introduction. it is for the three institutions – the council and the european parliament, working on the basis of the proposals of the european commission – to take the business of the european union forward. esther de lange also spoke about turkey, and i agree with her. i will now continue in dutch, as otherwise i will be criticised in the press. ik ben het met haar eens dat die turkijedeal natuurlijk onderdeel moet zijn van een “en-en-en”-aanpak. het kan niet alleen een turkijedeal zijn. hierbij is het stoppen van de way through cruciaal, het afsluiten van de balkanroute, het investeren in de opvangcapaciteit in turkije. griekenland, waar maatregelen worden genomen om te registreren, om op te vangen. dus het is onderdeel van een “en-en-en”-aanpak. paul tang, terecht zei hij dat churchill ver weg is. ik noemde hem in mijn speech in januari. maar churchill zou zeer ongelukkig zijn geweest met de besluiten die genomen zijn door het britse volk vorige week. ik heb daar geen enkele twijfel over. en ik ben het ook met hem eens, gek genoeg, als liberaal rechts van het midden en hij links van het midden, dat europa meer is dan de markt. maar die markt, en daar heeft guy verhofstadt ook over gesproken, is wel een motor om mensen uiteindelijk welvaart en dus ook banen te brengen. mr kamall, thank you so much for your kind words and your compliments about our presidency. i am, of course, extremely disappointed about the brexit vote, not just for economic reasons, but also geopolitically. i think it is a great loss that, in an unstable world, the european union now faces the second biggest member state leaving this union. this is good news for some of those who do not wish us the best things in the world – and they are not part of the european union – but it is not good news for those seeking protection and collective safety in the fact that we work so well together within the european union. guy verhofstadt, dank voor de vriendelijke woorden. ik ben het als altijd zeer met hem eens, niet waar het gaat om een meer federaal europa. ik denk dat er misschien ook wel een verschil is in hoe vlamingen het woord federaal zien en hoe nederlanders dat zien. het heeft ook wel te maken met de vertaling van het woord. ik ben het wel met hem eens – en ook dank voor zijn hulp tijdens ons voorzitterschap – dat een van de belangrijkste taken die we hebben het versterken van de interne markt is. en dat zeg ik ook tegen dennis de jong, want het is prachtig om te praten over waarden, over allemaal mooie belangen, maar uiteindelijk, als wij er niet voor kunnen zorgen, in nederland bijvoorbeeld waar wij meer dan 10 miljoen banen hebben, dat uiteindelijk 2 miljoen van die banen direct samenhangen met het feit dat de europese unie bestaat en dat de interne markt bestaat, dan zouden wij de relevantie van die europese unie niet kunnen uitleggen aan onze mensen. dan, philip lamberts had veel kritiek, ik kon hem niet helemaal overtuigen van de zegeningen van ons voorzitterschap, zoveel heb ik daaruit afgeleid. veel kritiek ook op onze aanpak voor het vluchtelingenvraagstuk. maar ik zeg hem wel twee dingen. als wij niet de afspraak met turkije hadden gemaakt, dan zouden nog steeds iedere maand honderd mensen omkomen op de egeïsche zee. sinds 20 maart nog tien. dat zijn er nog steeds tien te veel, maar niet meer honderd per maand! dus dat business model van de mensensmokkelaars is nu gesloopt. dat vind ik goed nieuws. en het tweede is: hadden wij niet die afspraken gemaakt met turkije, dan zou in toenemende mate in duitsland, zweden, oostenrijk, nederland en belgië, het gevoel zijn gegroeid dat de politici het niet langer onder controle hebben, niet langer grip hebben op de situatie. en dat is uiteindelijk onacceptabel. wij moeten het draagvlak houden, ook in onze landen, om mensen die echt op de vlucht zijn voor echt gevaar een veilig heenkomen te bieden. maar de aantallen moeten beheersbaar zijn. mr etheridge and mr balczó, again i believe that brexit is extremely unfortunate, particularly for the united kingdom. that country has now collapsed, politically, economically, monetarily and constitutionally, and you will have years of work ahead of you to get out of this mess. en dat zou ook een antwoord zijn aan olaf stuger die ik eigenlijk hoor flirten met die gedachte. “waarom niet ook andere landen zo’n exitscenario?” ik zou zeggen, mijnheer stuger, kijk naar het verenigd koninkrijk! is dat wat u wilt, dat andere landen zich in dezelfde puinhoop storten als het verenigd koninkrijk heeft gedaan vorige week vrijdag? daarom zou ik willen eindigen met een simpele uitspraak. ik vind dat wij als politici nooit, maar dan ook helemaal nooit spelletjes mogen spelen met banen van mensen, met belangen van mensen, met de toekomst van mensen. het flirten met exitscenario’s in andere landen is het spelen van spelletjes. dat doe ik niet. u zult mij altijd op uw weg vinden als u dat probeert!
in writing. on 1 january 2016, the netherlands assumed the presidency of the council of the eu for the 12th time. the priorities of the dutch presidency included boosting eu innovation, focusing on growth and jobs, a comprehensive approach to migration and border security, and a unified approach to climate change and sustainable development. one of the main elements of the strategy of this presidency was to strengthen the implementation of eu legislation and to improve the functioning of the market for services with high economic potential, inter alia by strengthening the principle of mutual recognition. in this context, the simplification of formalities for citizens moving abroad has been a great success. the introduction of standard multilingual forms for most of the documents covered by the regulation, including residence, citizenship, civil status and criminal records, once it enters into force will avoid costly translations and will greatly facilitate the movement of union citizens. the dutch presidency's priorities in the area of justice and home affairs were to tackle the migration crisis and to stem the flow of refugees, as well as to combat terrorism and counteract radicalisation. the most successful of these was the eu-turkey agreement, which allows turkey to take in illegal migrants crossing the greek border. in return, the union will systematically take in syrian refugees. i would like to congratulate the netherlands on a successful presidency and on the achievement of many of the objectives it has set itself.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i'm asking for a language of mutual respect. i know mrs. harms well, we were together in the ukraine during a very difficult time, and i know that mrs. harms doesn't really despise anyone. but let's not talk about contempt, let's talk about how we're different, even deeply different. let's convince the brexiteers that they made a mistake for their country and for europe, but let's not say that we despise them. that's the mistake in my belief. the council may have given birth to a mouse recently, but the council's conclusions contained the keyword that poland, the polish government, was seeking, and we are happy about that. it talks about the need to reform the european union, because reform is absolutely necessary. if mr verhofstadt, who i have agreed with for the first time in the last two years, said a moment ago that the union will either change or die, i would just say that if it changes as mr verhofstadt wants it to, it will die even faster. it is not about more integration, it is not about a superstate, it is about what mr verhofstadt's party colleague, the dutch prime minister, mr rutte, said in his excellent speech, that we must listen to the citizens, that we must do everything to give the citizens a sense of influence over the decisions of the european union. finally, i would like to say that when mr pittella says that we should speed up the tory elections, the european taxpayers will laugh us to death if they find out that we want to regulate the elections in the individual parties. it will not make the european union stronger. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i don't know if i understood your question correctly or if you understood what i said. i'm very unhappy with what's happened in britain. brexit is not in the uk's interest, and it's not my business, but it's not in europe's interest, and poland is a very important part of the european union. finally, i would like the people who are in favour of brexit to condemn loudly the attacks on my countrymen, on poles in the european union, also on the example of other nationalities. i miss that voice from the brexiteers here. i think brexit is a problem, but let's talk about it in a different language, a more calm, less emotional way.
in 1918, poland was coming out of the occupation of the three powers, there was chaos, the regency council declared independence, then handed over power to piłsudski, he dissolved the kingdom, then there was some coup d'état, but in the end poland regained independence. today, the united kingdom, which has the status of the current sultanate in malaysia, is fighting for liberation from the occupation of the european union. the mess is much smaller than poland in 1918. i am convinced that the united kingdom will regain its independence. and to the socialist countries who want to extend social rights to the whole of europe, and to mr juncker who wants to talk about europeans, i would like to remind you that the great european philosopher lord acton said that all socialism must end in national socialism. if you speak of the european nation, then eurosocialism becomes national socialism. we must defend europe from national socialism, we must defend europe from you. that's why i think the european union must be destroyed.
madam president! i think we all have taken with seriousness, with concern, but also with regret, the decision expressed in the referendum that the united kingdom is leaving our community. it seems that even the british themselves seem surprised by their decision, and also a little worried. but i must say that there is often a temptation to blame the distant union for national problems, because it is easier to say that brussels did it. we're doing this for the national debate. we expect the effects of this to be like brexit, but also like the referendum in the netherlands. the ukraine, which we could help by accepting this association agreement and free trade area, cannot benefit fully from it at the moment because it has been blocked in the netherlands. we sometimes say that it was not us, but the union, that it was not the authorities of the member states who had a hand in this decision, but some distant union. in fact, without this decision of the member states, none of the decisions taken here can be implemented, so we would like to respect the principle of subsidiarity on the one hand, but on the other hand also to be able to participate in those decisions which are taken by the citizens in a reasonable way. so let's not focus on the details, let's focus on the strategic decisions. the uk must take the next step: implement article 50, but also on the uk side, if it wants to benefit from the common market, is also to secure the four freedoms. on the side of those who were behind brexit, there is also the safeguarding of the rights of citizens of such countries as well as poland. you can't call our citizens - and there are about 800,000 of them in the uk - trash. it's also quite a shock. the case of the agricultural crisis. it's also one of the big themes. it is good that the council has taken up this issue of the crisis in agricultural markets, because it is also a matter of great concern to the citizens. we can help each other here, together in the union, not individually. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i believe that this cooperation between the european institutions and the member states, but in particular with national parliaments, should be closer. we have seen this role of national parliaments in action in the treaty of lisbon. but i think that is not enough for a common understanding of those expectations which exist between the member states and the elected representatives of the citizens of the member states in the national parliaments and the european institutions, including the european parliament. this debate really needs to be deepened to understand the essence of subsidiarity, to understand the essence of the policies we are taking on behalf of and for the benefit of the citizens of the european union. then we'll have the desired effect.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i was a strong supporter of the uk remaining in the eu and i want the eu and the uk to have good relations. and why, mr. president, are you proposing a policy of show of force, of putting pressure on the united kingdom to notify its intention to leave the european union very quickly? it is irresponsible from the point of view of responsibility for europe and bacon would not have followed your advice.
madam president! we heard from prime minister cameron that the british referendum was a great victory for democracy. a few more such victories for democracy and the legacy of several generations, who built a european space without conflicts, wars, borders or national prejudices in the wake of the 20th century's cataclysms, could be ruined. a few more politicians like the brexit stars, led by nigel farage, and it could be that the scattered and fragmented western democracies will be helpless in a global world that does not recognize our value system. democracy wins when political debate serves to educate people about public affairs. but the triumph of populism, the artificially created fears and prejudices, is hardly a victory for democracy. polish immigrants have also been victimized by this campaign, the vast majority of whom go to work hard to increase their wealth and to work for the benefit of the british isles. it can't be that they're the victims of some shameful incident right now. their interests must also be protected in the talks with london. there will be no such thing as an open european market for goods, services and capital without an open english market for continental europe, for the flow of labour, for job seekers.
in writing. the most important event of the past few weeks was undoubtedly the outcome of the uk referendum on leaving the eu. i regret the democratic decision of the british people to leave the eu, but it must be respected and implemented as soon as possible. the prolonged uncertainty is not in the interest of either party. the other 27 member states should instead work out better solutions to common problems such as the migration crisis or youth unemployment. i therefore welcomed the eu's global strategy presented by high representative federica mogherini. in preparing our foreign policy strategy, we must first of all bear in mind that preventing the kind of problems we face today in the future must begin with the specific foreign policy we are shaping today. the eu's global strategy must therefore be up-to-date, coherent in all its elements and linking tasks to responsibilities and funding. in addition, in the context of foreign and security policy, it is impossible not to mention the nato summit which will begin in warsaw in a few days. the location of the summit draws attention to our eastern neighbourhood the ongoing conflict in ukraine, the upcoming parliamentary elections in belarus. closer cooperation between the eu and nato in key areas will be essential to the effective achievement of our common objectives.
prince bismarck said there are three kinds of people: the first are those who learn from the experience of history; the second are those who learn from the experience of their own lives; and there is a third type of people who never learn anything from anything. and this third type is the one that runs the european union today. the british referendum should be a signal for us to make the necessary changes. unfortunately, it has only become a signal for attacks on europeans who disagree with the policies of the current eu authorities. today the commission's leadership is leading us nowhere and only its overthrow can restore the principle of political responsibility and the public good in european politics.
in writing. ‒ peru has recorded economic growth of over 80% in the last 10 years, placing it among the 10 fastest growing countries in the world in terms of trade. moreover, the eu remains the largest investor in peru, which underlines the importance of this agreement in the context of further promoting this type of market opportunities. in march this year, the eu concluded an agreement with the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this new visa system allows union citizens to travel without a visa to peru and peruvian citizens to travel without a visa to the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. citizens of the union and peru shall be required to hold a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport in order to travel under the visa waiver. however, the short-stay visa waiver does not apply to persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreement is already in force on a provisional basis, having received the unanimous support of the schengen governments in the council, but its final conclusion requires the prior consent of the european parliament. the provisions of this agreement will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland, as their visa systems are subject to national legislation. with that in mind, i voted to accept the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is of the utmost importance for the deepening of the relations between the european union and the republic of peru. it will allow for closer economic and cultural relations and deepen political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement could also be an opportunity to improve regional cohesion as peru is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still require visas and is a significant factor in bringing europeans and peruvians closer together.
in writing. ‒ in march, the eu concluded an agreement with the republic of peru on the abolition of short-stay visas. this new visa system allows union citizens to travel without a visa to peru and peruvian citizens to travel without a visa to the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. peru has experienced economic growth of over 80% in the last 10 years. in terms of trade, the eu is peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports and the main destination for exported goods. moreover, the eu remains the largest investor in peru, which underlines the importance of this agreement in the context of further promoting this type of market opportunities. peru has also expressed its interest in signing a strategic cooperation agreement with the european police office (europol), which would represent a significant step forward in enhancing cooperation between the eu and peru in the area of organised crime. the cor is all the more aware of the importance and the need to further stimulate and strengthen this cooperation through the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. such agreements are one way of stimulating people-to-people contacts with the citizens of the countries with which they are concluded, increasing trade opportunities through increased tourism and promoting business relations between the eu and these countries. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas is a major step forward in relations between the european union and the republic of peru. the agreement offers a chance to stimulate the tourism economy and hopes for closer cultural and economic relations. the republic of peru enjoys a good reputation in the european union and we should have a special relationship with trusted partners, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas will strengthen the mutual international economic relations between the european union and the republic of peru. the agreement will allow for a deepening of cultural relations and the importance of many issues, such as respect for human rights and the right to liberty. this agreement will certainly create a stronger regional cohesion between the people of peru and the citizens of the european union. visa waiver will improve the international integration of these two entities. the effects of the agreement will certainly have a positive impact on tourism. moreover, there will be an increase in trade and an increase in investment. i believe that peru has the potential to become a key partner of the european union in the fight against organised crime, especially in the area of drug trafficking and human trafficking. by signing the strategic cooperation agreement with europol, peru has already shown its willingness to strengthen its relations with the european union. i voted in favour because i believe that cooperation with peru will be a mutually beneficial agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement concerns the conditions for emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for low-cost mobile machinery. these machines include lawnmowers, sprinklers, railway locomotives and inland waterway vessels, and account for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter pollution in the eu. the agreement tightens the existing limit conditions for these emissions, introduces higher power categories for engines for low-cost mobile machinery covered by the regulation and generally aligns the limit conditions to those in the us and japanese markets, where these values are currently more stringent than in the eu. a very important issue in the document is to ensure that life-saving equipment, such as lifeboat transport vehicles, which could not meet the new proposed boundary conditions due to technical non-adaptation, could be excluded from the scope of the regulation because of its social value. this shutdown has been approved by the council. in conclusion, i believe that this agreement is a good example of better lawmaking in action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines intended for low-cost mobile machinery. the purpose of this proposal is to protect the environment and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market by introducing emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for low-cost mobile machinery, i.e. lawnmowers, spark-ignition engines, railway locomotives or inland waterway vessels. the agreement tightens the current limit conditions for these emissions, giving it the potential to deliver significant benefits by reducing emissions to the environment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement at first reading concerns the emission limit conditions and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for low-cost mobile machinery. these machines include lawnmowers, sprinklers, railway locomotives and inland waterway vessels, and account for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter pollution in the eu. the agreement tightens the existing limit conditions for these emissions, introduces higher power categories for engines for low-cost mobile machinery covered by the regulation and generally aligns the limit conditions to those in the us and japanese markets, where these values are currently more stringent than in the eu. the agreement is a good example of better law-making in action, reflecting the principle of thinking small, while ensuring that the rules are fit for purpose from both an environmental and an economic point of view. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ this regulation updates the 2004 directive, which has been outdated in recent years due to technological progress. i think that the differences in emissions should be adjusted on an ongoing basis. in addition, in line with the european union's air quality policy, this will have the effect of gradually reducing emissions from new engines entering the market and thus eventually replacing older engines that are more polluting, thus contributing to the protection of health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the report covers a wide range of issues, including ensuring a holistic eu approach, cooperation with third countries, eu funding through the esf, the erdf and humanitarian aid, definitions, processing, recognition of qualifications, access to eu labour markets and social inclusion (including housing, healthcare and social protection). the report first sets out the political and strategic context and then outlines a number of recommendations, including a call to increase the esf budget, the creation of a single european asylum system and the amendment of the reception conditions directive and the blue card directive. since the beginning of the procedure, there have been concerns about the direction of some of the proposals, in particular the link between legal migration policy and policies to address the current crisis. the ecr group tabled a number of amendments calling for a greater focus on the implementation of existing measures, eu relations with third countries and the fight against trafficking in human beings and discrimination. the ecr also called for a clear distinction between legal migration, asylum seekers and refugees to avoid any confusion between the different categories, using the revision of the blue card directive as a potential solution (meaning that more legal migration, especially highly skilled blue card workers, will not solve the migration crisis). unfortunately, because of the s&d group's uncompromising attitude, which did not intend to take the ecr group's most important demands into account, i voted against.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the key challenge of the refugee crisis is the effective integration of newcomers to the union, which will not be possible without their inclusion in the european labour market. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that, alongside the new european agenda on migration, there is a need for rapid action to integrate refugees and asylum seekers into the labour market. indeed, integration is the foundation of social inclusion, and without it, social inclusion is unlikely to be possible. two challenges emerge in this area and require rapid action. the first is the language skills of refugees. the second problem is the recognition of the refugee's education, qualifications and skills. people coming to the union very often have the qualifications needed in our market, but they are not recognised for legal reasons. it is therefore worth paying attention to the obstacles to this which arise from the european qualifications framework. i voted against the permanent mechanism for the relocation of refugees proposed by the rapporteur and against the equal treatment of refugees and asylum seekers. persons who have not completed the asylum procedure should not be granted full rights in the member states until their situation and identity have been established.
in writing. ‒ in the report on social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market, i voted against the amendments supporting the issuing of work permits for those awaiting a decision on asylum. the integration of migrants into the labour market is obviously necessary, but for security reasons it should not concern people who are waiting for their asylum application to be examined, nor impose too short deadlines on member states, as there are differences in the procedures applied between member states and in individual cases the time taken to examine the application may be longer. i was also against the deletion of the adjective 'european' from paragraph 1 in relation to the values and rights that should be respected by migrants coming to the eu. i supported the articles and amendments that spoke of the need to strengthen the protection of women and children and stressed the importance of language education for the effective integration of refugees into the labour market. i disagree with the alternative resolution issued by the enf, which questions the efforts for integration because of the temporary status of refugees. there is no way of predicting how long the crisis in the countries of origin will last. the economic independence of persons in protection in the eu is crucial not only for their quality of life, dignity and acceptance in local communities, but also for social services and security budgets.
in writing. - i do not think this report is fully balanced. yes, we must invest in integration, but integration must also include rights and obligations. i believe that we can only succeed if both sides are willing to take responsibility and commit themselves, and i am therefore opposed to the report as it is being proposed. i voted against the document.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european parliament adopted resolutions on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, as well as on international trade policy in the context of the urgent needs of climate change and on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements. in these resolutions, parliament called for the future eu trade strategy to become an instrument for more responsible fair trade, which can guarantee the effective integration and implementation of social and environmental standards. this report examines the achievements to date and sets new targets in terms of the conditions for respect for human rights and legally binding provisions in the development chapters of trade agreements. unfortunately, i don't support that approach. i believe that trade can promote human rights in the long run. the eu's trade policy should be based on a comprehensive approach to the issue of human rights, including the principle of non-discrimination, and on a comprehensive approach to the issue of non-discrimination. given the above, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in october 2015, the european commission, following several proposals from the european parliament, adopted a communication setting out the european union's trade strategy for the coming years. for the first time, the strategy emphasised a values-based approach to trade, stressing not only the importance of market access issues but also the importance of the principles and values that underpin and are reflected in new trade agreements, such as the increased need to make trade policy more inclusive and more transparent. i support open and free trade and have welcomed the new strategy. the ecr group tabled a number of amendments in an attempt to underline parliament's continued support for the conclusion of ongoing trade negotiations with major partners such as the us and japan, and for the opening of new negotiations, not only with like-minded partners such as australia and new zealand, but also with some of the major emerging economies in the asia-pacific region. as the final text was balanced by some demands for increased market access for large and emerging economies and increased support for small and medium-sized enterprises to take advantage of the opportunities offered by trade, i voted in favour of the above document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new, forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment. trade policy for the 21st century should respond to the concerns of a society that is currently concerned about the phenomenon of globalisation associated with job losses. this is why it is so important to shape trade and investment agreements in such a way that they are a tool to strengthen sustainable development, safeguard human rights, labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide. it is also of the utmost importance to update the trading strategy regularly.
in writing. ‒ on 14 october 2015, the european commission, following several requests from the european parliament, adopted a communication setting out the european union's trade strategy for the coming years. open and free trade is worth supporting. the importance of parliament's support for the ongoing trade negotiations with major partners such as the us and japan, and for the opening of new negotiations not only with partners such as australia and new zealand, but also with many of the major emerging economies in the asia-pacific region, should be underlined. the report calls for greater access to markets for large and emerging economies, as well as greater support for small and medium-sized enterprises to take advantage of the opportunities offered by trade. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ foreign trade can be key to the development of the european economy. many are concerned about the prospects for a decline in the importance of the european economy, with some estimating that by 2050 the eu will generate some 15% of global gdp. in comparison, in 2013 it was close to 24%. this is why strategies are so important to try to stop the downward trends and respond to the fundamental challenges of the european economy. the draft as proposed meets these criteria and i therefore voted in favour of it.
mr. chairman, please! i asked commissioner malmström in the debate whether today - six months after the tragedy of 10,000 children disappearing on the roads of illegal immigration was revealed - the commission could tell us what happened to some of them. unfortunately, the commission has not responded. 10,000 children have died, and europe's human rights record is not a bad one. of course, the european commission can remain silent, but we will not. this event, this drama that we still can't answer, shows the truth about illegal immigration. let us remember that it was the declarations by the european commission's leadership on a europe open to immigration without borders that created a unique situation for the activities of the human trafficking mafia. and it's time to show you what's really behind those phrases.
in writing. ‒ the report takes a very clear stance against trafficking in human beings in all its forms: forced labour, forced surrogacy, forced begging, torture and coercion, organ harvesting, etc. the numbers are staggering: the estimated number of victims worldwide is 35 million, and the annual profits from trafficking in human beings amount to hundreds of billions of euros. the report made a number of recommendations, most of which should be supported. these include a call for greater international cooperation, a call for greater action to recover illicit profits and a call to reduce the overall demand for victims of trafficking and their services. trafficking in human beings is a very serious problem that needs to be tackled, inter alia, in the eu's external relations. the report also called for the eu and its member states to hold companies, as well as related companies and subcontractors throughout their supply chain, accountable for trafficking in human beings. all companies should be vigilant, of course, but this is unrealistic and unfair. for these reasons, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report takes a very clear stance against trafficking in human beings in all its forms: sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced surrogacy, forced begging, torture and coercion, organ harvesting, etc. the numbers are staggering: the estimated number of victims worldwide is 35 million, and the annual profits from trafficking in human beings amount to hundreds of billions of euros. the report made a number of encouraging recommendations. these include a call for greater international cooperation, a call for greater action to recover illicit profits and a call to reduce the overall demand for victims of trafficking and their services. the report now calls for the eu and its member states to hold companies, as well as 'related companies and subcontractors throughout their supply chain, accountable for trafficking in human beings'. of course, businesses should be vigilant, but this is unrealistic and unfair. it is difficult to support the call for more 'safe and legal pathways' for migrants to get to the eu. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is organised crime. it's one of the worst forms of human rights violation, which defines a human being as a commodity. moreover, it seriously violates both the dignity and the rights of the victim, and it has a negative impact on the whole community. i believe that it is essential to implement a legal framework that will address trafficking in human beings. attention should be paid to barriers to the fight against trafficking in persons, both in relation to european union countries and to third countries. this type of crime affects every place on earth, so the focus should be on implementing appropriate measures not only at the local level but also at the international level. cooperation between member states, europol and other countries on all continents is an important tool in the fight against existing criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings. i voted in favour of taking action to strengthen and improve cooperation in defence of the dignity of victims of trafficking in human beings.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the mff regulation provides for the obligation to review the functioning of the mff and, where justified, to make appropriate adjustments. this regulation, of course, mainly provides for the role of the european commission and the council. the european parliament has asked us to prepare a position in the form of an own-initiative report, a position which reflects the european parliament's expectations of the european commission and the council in relation to the multiannual financial perspective. the european parliament, therefore, by adopting its own-initiative report, makes clear what its expectations are, since it is expected to give its consent to the arrangements and amendments made after the whole process. the european parliament, in its report, firstly refers to the current state of the financial perspective, that is to say, it points to certain difficult or even dangerous elements. the european parliament also points to the changing nature of the eu budget and the increasing role of external financial instruments. the european parliament also shows in its report what parliament thinks and that was our task as rapporteurs should be changed in the run-up to this. therefore, we note, among other things, the change in ceilings for individual departments. we note the change in ceilings for payments, the adjustment of payments for commitments, in particular in cohesion policy. we also stress the need to increase funding for both the youth employment sections and the security and migration sections. we also propose changes to the flexibility mechanism. the european parliament, we hope, will also accept the following recommendation after this debate, namely that we should indeed change the rules for the use of the budget surplus. we believe that the budget surplus should remain in the budget and not be returned to the individual member states. the whole package of proposed changes also obviously concerns the simplifications which we believe should be made in the near future, i.e. in the coming months, in order to complete the operation of the perspective. and in addition, in our report we propose changes to the functioning of the post-2020 multiannual perspective. the european parliament has therefore made it clear today that it expects the european commission to take concrete, decisive action and to review not only the budget and policies but also to propose changes. we are therefore awaiting a proposal for revision.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. my dear kristalina, i have to go. the commissioner has named the real challenge. we have less money, but the powers of the european union are growing. there's no question about that. in addition, new needs have emerged that require funding, such as migration, refugees, the fight against terrorism. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is based on the principle of subsidiarity. these are the expectations that this is a real review, although there is little to be said - after three years of slow implementation of the new perspective - about which programmes are actually doing well and which are doing poorly. as far as my committee, itre, is concerned, the expectation is the same: that the new priorities which have emerged should not be financed at the expense of the old priorities, because programmes such as horizon, cosme, galileo and copernicus are also very forward-looking.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. - madam president! - i have to go. we have always had the view that the multiannual financial framework and the debate on it are de facto a debate on the state of european finances, on the economic state of europe. how's that for fitness? not very well. we know it's hard, but it's not the worst. on behalf of the committee, i would like to stress the need to ensure that financial guarantees are provided for programmes such as creative europe, erasmus+, europe for citizens, but also that there are no arrears in payments. i'll add one more element that is now serious. we must ensure that these most important european actions are well promoted, that information programmes are supported and that - in short - false campaigns like brexit are not justified. we must take care to promote our efforts, our institutions, and there must be resources for this, because the other costs will be many times greater.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that the european commission should take the following important issues into account when preparing the revision of the financial framework for the years 2014-2020. the conflicts in syria, the middle east and several regions of africa have caused humanitarian and security-related migration consequences of such a scale that they have already led to at least several dozen billion euro in expenditure commitments from the union budget. the low level of investment resulting from the creation of the efsi has led to a total of eur 5 billion in cuts to the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes, and parliament has committed to offsetting these cuts. the persistently high level of unemployment among young people under 25 means that the youth employment initiative has essentially run out of funds after two years. the long-term negative impact of the losses suffered by farmers as a result of the russian embargo, the extremely difficult situation on the dairy market and the difficult situation on many other agricultural markets indicate a persistent crisis in the entire agricultural sector, which requires and will require additional expenditure from the union budget. all these challenges require not only that expenditure from the union budget is not reduced, including compliance with article 2 of the financial framework regulation, which provides that the appropriations allocated to individual member states are not reduced by revision, but on the contrary that the ceiling for expenditure, in particular in title 1b and titles 3 and 4, is raised.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this debate has shown that the conversation is not just about money, it's about policy making, and there are a few conclusions to be drawn. first of all, it's a conversation about what we should do together and what we shouldn't do together. it's kind of the first and most important thing. secondly, we are launching a debate on the next post-2020 perspective. third, we need to have a budget that is flexible enough so that we don't have to do another audit. if the british government files a notification, we'll have to do a framework review in two years. we have to be prepared for that. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my co-rapporteur very much: we have not only ensured cross-party cooperation and gender balance, but also mutual trust at work. i would like to thank my colleagues, my advisers, the chairman of the committee on budgets and the commissioner for their openness. relations between parliament and the commission are not always so open. i hope this is a sign of things to come. so thank you very much, and please accept that this is not our final word, we are just beginning the work on the revision and we are waiting for your move.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think that both tax committee reports proved that matters relating to tax rulings cover a wide range of issues, from the tax rulings themselves and administrative practices to the protection of whistle-blowers, to beneficial ownership, to tax competition and state aid. the issue is central also because of the amount of funds involved in tax dodging and the impact on growth fairness. but what makes this issue even more complex and specific is its cross—border dimension. tax dodging thrives on the mismatches between systems and the lack of cross—border cooperation. unilateral actions to fight it can create unwanted competitive distortions that are harmful for law-abiding businesses. therefore, when addressing tax avoidance and evasion, it is important that we act in compliance with global standards and achieve a high level of international cooperation. on all issues covered by the oecd beps action plan, we really need to have all countries on board, because there are rules that are likely to influence the location of business activities worldwide. and last but not least, when we – as the european union –plan to go further than the oecd, we must make sure that our ambition is not to depart from those recommendations, but to build upon them. commissioner, just to end, i would like to tell you that to ensure a follow-up to our report we count on you, and you know very well that your presentation was proof that there are still many things to fix to give our citizens fairer taxation.
in writing. the annual budget of the european union is around €150 billion, and the losses from tax fraud and tax avoidance estimated by the european commission could be as high as €1 trillion per year. and that's just a thought. the real numbers could be even higher. tax fraud and tax avoidance have a negative impact on the labour market, competition mechanisms and economic growth. the amounts provided demonstrate that action to protect the financial interests of the union effectively is not only necessary but also urgent. transparency, controls, exchange of information and limitation of banking secrecy are essential instruments to counter tax fraud and tax avoidance. the obligation to make national reports public or the mandatory automatic exchange of tax information between member states are just some of the tools in the package presented by the commission. but that doesn't mean the problem is solved. because business processes will always be vulnerable to unfair practices. so, in addition to systemic solutions, it is important to have as rapid access to knowledge about fraudulent practices as possible. it is therefore necessary to provide for rules to protect investigative journalists and whistleblowers from negative consequences for them as a result of disclosing information in good faith and in the public interest.
madam president! fellow workers! i support the creation of a european border and coast guard because i am in favour of rational decisions. in areas such as the fight against terrorism and the protection of external borders, we can advance our integration, especially since the european border and coast guard is not intended to replace the efforts of sovereign states but to support them. and i would like to appeal to the european commission to ensure that this spirit of cooperation, this spirit of mutual trust, is also reflected in the european commission, because then we will have a positive effect. doctrine is something that prevents us from making good policy. i do not share the views of those on the left, the left of the european parliament, who say: 'let's not worry about protecting the external borders, let's open the door wide to immigration'. i want to make it very clear: only a europe that is secure can be truly united. if europe is not capable of security, it will not be able to show solidarity.
first, the european union should have as many common institutions and common competences as our countries share common values and common interests. secondly, institutions must be created to carry out our agreed policies, not to replace the need for political agreements between states. as far as our common borders and the protection of our common borders are concerned, we have had the worst experience in recent months in the specific political dimension. the countries on the borders of the european union, which wanted to protect our borders, were only attacked, and in this room, they were attacked instead of supported. what the european union needs today is not new institutions, but a whole new leadership. the need for policy change, not the creation of new institutions, to reinforce the policies of this leadership, which should definitely be gone.
in writing. i consider it important to adopt a regulation on the european border and coast guard. this is not only important but also urgent, as the number of illegal immigrants to the eu exceeded 1.5 million in 2015 alone, and this year it is already several hundred thousand. the creation of a european border guard is intended to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this illegal immigration. the new border guard should be based on the presence of frontex and much better cooperation between member states in protecting the union's border. the regulation provides for a gradual increase in the number of european border and coast guard staff from 225 posts in 2016 to 1000 in 2020. this is, of course, the right direction, but it is not enough to increase the number of staff and the financial resources. the efficiency of the new guard and the speed of decision-making by its leadership will be of enormous importance. the aim is to ensure that the european border and coast guard is as effective as possible in supporting countries that are struggling to cope with the influx of illegal migrants.
madam president, congratulations to andreas schwab for the great job. the network information security directive is key for european security. it supports a level playing field across the eu. it describes in a broad way the significance of critical infrastructure and the network between national certs managed by enisa. it requires more cooperation between all stakeholders and among member states. it is not easy for implementation and we see it. it is time to say that although security is under national competences, cyber security, because of the nature of the cross-border internet, should have a european, fully-harmonised policy in the future. this is also the opportunity not only for better security, but for cyber-security business development and innovative digital economic growth. i appreciate very much, established by the commission and partners today, the contractual public private partnership. it will strengthen resilience and the cyber-security industry. it can bring us more understanding of the cyber-security problems, raising the awareness issue, and more practical, business-oriented solutions.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the synergies between horizon 2020 and the structural funds were intended to enable some member states to use the funds to achieve scientific excellence in order to exploit the full potential of horizon 2020. let's be clear: that goal has not been achieved. the gap between central and eastern europe and western europe is widening. the 13 new countries of the union received only 5% of the total budget spent in horizon 2020. effective synergy is the result of action by the member states, but also by the european commission, which regulates the permissible level of public aid and audits the solutions implemented. in addition to the differences in the level of funding between 'horizon 2020' and the funds, there are also differences in the tendering requirements, evaluation criteria and the language in which applications are submitted. the 'seals of excellence' tool is not working to the extent it should, due to the lack of adaptation of existing regulations by the european commission. the discrepancies between the two programmes prevented the implementation of the automation envisaged. we therefore expect the commission to make specific proposals for the changes that are necessary to achieve the objective that the commissioner is talking about.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are now looking at the mid-term evaluation of horizon 2020 and preparations for the 9th framework programme. it is therefore important to look at the issue of spending in horizon 2020 and in the structural funds, especially when it comes to the differences in the share of the so-called 'thirteen' and the rest of the union in horizon 2020. we've been through this. first of all, it is about spending the structural funds on serious investments in the future, not just spending them efficiently, while completing the european research area and implementing the europe 2020 strategy. two examples of what could be done: horizon 2020 and the structural funds are compatible, for example public aid is allowed in the structural funds but not in horizon 2020; smart specialisations are a funding criterion in the funds but again not in horizon 2020. these differences are one reason why the 'seals of excellence' we have been talking about do not work as well as they could, and that is why uniform standards are needed for all instruments. finally, it is important to open up research networks to participants from the 13 countries, and to ensure greater geographical balance in the expert and advisory groups. i am convinced that synergy will allow us to correct these shortcomings.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. synergy is a nice word. it means combining efforts and resources instead of diverting them. we live in a europe that has very different levels of innovation in its economy, and different ways of catching up, different ways of reaching out for european funds. van nistelrooy is talking about this. the north and west are mainly looking at section 1a, i.e. competitiveness. the south and the so-called new - not so new - countries are looking primarily for cohesion. but there is nothing to prevent cohesion countries from devoting a large part of their resources to research, development and innovation, except that this group of countries, in what we call 'catching-up', is solving a different problem of synergy than that indicated in the joint draft resolution. it's the synergy between funding universities, research units and institutes and business. this type of synergy should be particularly rewarded in the context of structural measures in poorer countries.
in writing. europe's problem is not so much the lack of funds for innovation as the lack of coherent rules for spending them, the synergy between the different funding streams. horizon 2020 was the hope of an innovation leap. after two years of implementation, it is clear how much improvement is needed to make this leap noticeable. the low success rates across the programme, at 13.9% and in some parts of the programme as low as 6%, are a cause for concern. hundreds of innovative projects are therefore wasted! to counter this, the european commission has created the seal of excellence. the highest-rated projects in the 'horizon 2020' programme that were not funded due to budget constraints shall be awarded the certificate. the seal is intended to provide them with a pass to the structural measures. it's a bad check now, though. the structural funds distributed at national level are subject to public aid constraints not found in horizon 2020. the authors of the 'seal of excellence' project must therefore prepare a new proposal, taking into account the very different requirements and criteria. very often, the project budget requires the reconstruction, as the structural funds offer a different level of support than horizon 2020. creating a new application and re-evaluating it is a long and costly process. can we afford to delay innovation like this? i would urge the european commission to exempt projects with the 'seal of excellence' from the rigorous rules for access to the structural funds, otherwise this instrument will remain a mere rhetoric.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. these two european agencies, which control fisheries and maritime safety, were supposed to ensure a uniform and effective level of safety at sea in the european union, prevent pollution, respond to threats from oil and gas installations, ensure sustainable fisheries, protect all living resources, protect fishermen, etc. how did i remember it? with arbitrary and highly overzealous control of fishermen and a particular fondness for harassing polish fishermen. but these agencies were silent during the construction of the politically and environmentally highly damaging nord stream pipelines, both 1 and 2, and during the installation of wind farms in the best fishing and spawning grounds. i have not seen them in the fight against forage fisheries, which led to the cod drama in the baltic and so on. at the moment, in the context of the migration crisis, we are creating a european border and coast guard agency, based on the existing frontex agency, based in warsaw, in relation to which the two agencies are to play a supporting role and help coordinate actions. we'll keep a close eye on them this time. in the credit of trust, we won't object.
the commissioner is joking. we made a decision last year, we adopted a resolution in which we called for, among other things, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which was supposed to have been created three years ago. olaf cannot conduct investigations on its own. olaf is not allowed to control the commissioners, and the sparrows on the roof are whispering about gigantic abuses among the commissioners. we have a situation where olaf's work is paralysed, where the head of olaf has been charged and his immunity has been removed at the moment it is not known whether he has been charged or not where the olaf commissioner is charging three commissioners, who are strangely non-socialists, but allegedly also holds charges against others. and you say that you took control of the situation in march. we're dealing with the issue of whether or not the secretariat should be in the same building. when the supervisory committee is to be replaced in stages, the commission tries to change the entire supervisory committee, which is of course against the rules. this situation requires radical action, not a discussion of where to establish a secretariat.
madam president! the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to introduce a regulation to increase the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. the current organisational rules have raised legitimate concerns about the possibility of a conflict of interest. this is evident when the supervisory authority is financially and personnel-wise linked to the supervised institution. this has often raised doubts as to whether the members of the supervisory committee can properly carry out their duties. the amendment of the regulation was therefore urgently needed to avoid any suspicion that olaf could have a negative impact on the functioning of the supervisory committee. the transfer of the resources of the secretariat of the supervisory committee from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to the budget line and staff establishment plan of the european commission will allow for such independence. i would therefore like to thank commissioner georgievej for listening to parliament's voice.
prime minister! poland welcomes and supports the slovak presidency of the council. you have presented a thorough analysis of the challenges and opportunities facing the union. you spoke in words that are not offensive, not educational, but seek solutions that can involve the widest possible circles of our societies. thank you for that. i hope that the treaty which you will no doubt begin to negotiate with the united kingdom will become a genuine treaty of friendship and not a divorce treaty. we do not need a divorce in this family, and a new relationship with the united kingdom could solve many of the problems you have mentioned.
first of all, i would like to say that the title of today's debate on the 2017 work programme has a whole new meaning in the light of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. second, we all ask how we should act. this is a question that is being asked in the member states, in parliament, in the european commission, but also by citizens. how can we reconcile citizens' expectations with economic development? and third, certainly a good predictor is responding to the scale of the problem. i think the maxim "to be big on big things and small on small things" should be taken very seriously. fourthly, in its legislative and implementing acts, the commission should limit itself to measures that are necessary and should refrain from those that citizens associate with over-regulation and red tape. fifthly, where the proper functioning of the common market does not require the harmonization of standards, let us leave that to the member states; where we need to consolidate the common market, we need to enforce european standards, for example by defending the free movement of persons or the provision of services. sixth, we are facing challenges that are important for all member states and citizens, such as energy security, the creation of the energy union, the digital economy, and the work already under way on the circular economy and the implementation of the bioeconomy. this is jobs and this is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement will allow azerbaijan to participate in selected community programmes and eu agencies' activities to support reform, modernisation and transformation in the eu's neighbourhood. this will provide an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and to enhance people-to-people and sectoral cooperation, complementing the strengthening of political ties within the eastern partnership. azerbaijan will make a financial contribution to the specific programmes in which it will participate. i have traditionally supported closer ties between the eu and third countries, including azerbaijan, especially in terms of enhancing the eu's energy security. promoting the eu's rational assistance to third countries is a pillar of the eu's work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. since 2006, the european commission has been gradually opening up certain eu programmes to neighbouring countries. it does so as part of the european neighbourhood policy. such protocols have already been concluded by armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine. azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu in the energy sector and the eu-azerbaijan agreement serves to enhance bilateral cooperation within the eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ the good relations between the european union and azerbaijan started with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement on 1 july 1999. azerbaijan is an important partner in many areas, but above all it plays a significant role in the energy sector. the proposed agreement recognises the importance of cooperation in the energy sector and raises hopes for the cooperation needed in this area, and i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the second draft amending budget for 2016 proposed to include the surplus from the financial year 2015 in this year's budget, in accordance with article 18 (3) of the financial regulation. this is a routine accounting operation to record and transfer unspent revenue to enable the commission to reimburse surpluses to the member states in the form of reduced contributions. the surplus for the financial year 2015 will result in a reduction of the gni-based contributions paid by the member states by eur 1,349 billion. the surplus is mainly due to the positive result on the own resources side and to interest on arrears and fines, as well as exchange rate differences. the report called on member states to use the resources recovered from the reduction of gni-based contributions to meet the obligations arising from the migration and refugee crisis. the report also called for the surplus to be used to finance own needs in the eu budget, which led me to vote in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the surpluses in the 2015 eu budget will allow for savings at member state level. this is a sound approach, respecting the letter and spirit of the european treaties, and that is why i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report reflects the agreement at second reading on the commission's proposal on cybersecurity for both critical infrastructure (electricity stations, airports, road infrastructure, etc.) and certain digital service providers (e-commerce platforms and search engines). it also lays down new rules on the level of security required to protect such infrastructure from attack and sets out the obligations of member states to coordinate and respond to cyber threats. the work has been limited to e-commerce platforms and search engines, i.e. where these providers provide the services you rely on to use the internet. the approach for digital infrastructure has been liberalised compared to traditional infrastructure, which means that companies will only be able to comply in one of the member states during the compliance procedure under this directive. this is similar to the approach adopted in the field of data protection. critical infrastructure operators will be required to have a resilience plan for network threats and to report any incidents to their national cyber threat teams. i believe that the final text, which sets out the basic measures to improve cybersecurity across europe and reflects the benefits that can result from greater exchange of information between member states on the evolving threats we face in the field of cybersecurity, should be supported. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. - fellow workers! in the digital world, the distinction between sender and receiver of information disappears. the internet remains a free and unfettered medium for the free exchange of opinions, thoughts, knowledge and even criticism. but such advances can be used for both good and bad purposes. network and information systems security affects all aspects of our lives, be they private, social or economic. of course, on the one hand, if we want to be globally competitive, we must fully exploit the opportunities of digitalisation in every sector and every company, and on the other hand, the security of all information is important. statistics show that the digital transformation is particularly lagging behind in traditional sectors (such as construction, metallurgy, agri-food, textiles and steel) as well as in smes, and therefore the security of network and information systems is essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market, as the main objective of the european union should be to deploy new technologies and stimulate research and innovation. i therefore voted in favour of adopting a document on a common high level of network and information security within the union.
in writing. ‒ the rise of cybercrime is a major threat to security today, and its importance is growing. i support a proposal that takes account of the importance of these crimes and aims to increase cybersecurity in europe. effective exchange of information between member states on security matters, while respecting the right to privacy, is a major challenge facing the european union, but there is no other way to deal with such threats.
in writing. ‒ this regulation establishes a process and a timetable for the return to the original eu energy label ag scale (generally within 5 years). the reason for this decision is the limited consumer understanding of the labels of type a+, a++ and a+++. the green to red color scale will be retained. the european commission must review the current labels and then propose delegated acts to return to the ag scale. the regulation also provides for cases where a product will need to be rescaled in the future, for example when:• 25% of products sold in the eu fall into the top energy efficiency class a; or• 50% of products sold in the eu fall into the top two energy efficiency classes a + b. the planned expiry date of the rescaled labels is at least 10 years, which is intended to reduce the burden on businesses. given the nature of the document and its compactness, aimed at simplifying labels and thus making them more legible, i voted in favour of adopting the regulation on the labelling of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal is part of the commission's proposals to strengthen the protection of europe's external borders, including european cooperation in the field of coast guard functions. this package consists of three proposals: for the european border and coast guard agency, for the european fisheries control agency and for the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the main objective of the set of proposals is to strengthen european cooperation in the performance of the coast guard function, to improve cooperation and coordination between relevant eu agencies and their services/functions. the emsa is entrusted with additional tasks: exchange of information and data available in the ship reporting system; provision of surveillance and communication services; capacity building through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices and training; capacity sharing, including the planning and implementation of multi-functional operations to cooperate with and support the european border and coast guard agency and national authorities with a coast guard function at national and union level. as it is desirable to strengthen the role of the european border and coast guard agency, emsa and the european control agency in the area of control of the eu's external borders, both in view of the terrorist threat and the issue of uncontrolled inflows of migrants from third countries, i voted in favour of adopting the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec. the schengen area is one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration. but the idea behind it has now been called into question. the current situation with regard to the migration crisis and the terrorist threat shows that the tools and mechanisms for the functioning of the schengen area that have been developed so far are not sufficient. the european border and coast guard (ebcg) responds to the need to ensure adequate controls at the external borders of the schengen area. i am convinced that this institution, while not solving all the security problems, has a chance to ensure an adequate level of security while guaranteeing the free movement of people within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of a european border and coast guard. this initiative is very rational. the mechanisms for the effective functioning of the schengen area are not sufficient, given the scale of the current migration crisis, as well as the fight against terrorism and the protection of external borders. moreover, the european border and coast guard is not intended to replace but to support the efforts of member states in tackling these problems.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal is one of the proposals put forward by the commission to strengthen the protection of europe's external borders, including through closer european cooperation on coast guard functions. this package consists of three proposals: for the european border and coast guard agency, for the european fisheries control agency and for the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the main objective of the set of proposals is to strengthen european cooperation in the performance of the coast guard function, to improve cooperation and coordination between relevant eu agencies and their services/functions. the emsa is entrusted with additional tasks: exchange of information and data available in the ship reporting system; provision of surveillance and communication services; capacity building through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices and the provision of training; capacity sharing, including the planning and implementation of multi-functional operations to cooperate with and support the european border and coast guard agency and national authorities with a coast guard function at national and union level. as it is desirable to strengthen the role of the european border and coast guard agency, emsa and the european control agency in the control of the eu's external borders, both in view of the terrorist threat and the uncontrolled influx of migrants from third countries, i voted in favour of the adoption of the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency. the establishment of a european maritime safety agency is one element in strengthening the protection of europe's external borders. the important role of the european coast guard is to strengthen european cooperation in the performance of coast guard functions and to improve cooperation and coordination between european union agencies. i am convinced that the cooperation of the european maritime safety agency with national coastguard authorities will strengthen the protection of the european union's maritime borders and contribute to enhancing the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the amendment of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european maritime safety agency. the main objective of this project is to develop eu cooperation in the field of coast guard operations. improving the exchange of real-time information and maritime surveillance data will allow for a more effective protection of the union's maritime borders against the activities of organised criminal groups and will also contribute to addressing the ever-growing problem of illegal immigration. in addition, the activities of the maritime safety agency will undoubtedly improve the functioning of the european border and coast guard agency. however, in order to be fully effective, coordination of the decision-making process in both agencies and the effective involvement of all member states will be necessary.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal is one of the proposals put forward by the commission to strengthen the protection of europe's external borders, including through closer european cooperation on coast guard functions. this package consists of three proposals: for the european border and coast guard agency, for the european fisheries control agency and for the european maritime safety agency (emsa). in the case of the european fisheries control agency, there is no full clarity on the nature of the increased fishing opportunities, so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ a proposal to coordinate coast guard functions at european level could help to free up the appropriate funds from both the asylum, migration and integration fund and the european fisheries control agency. the main objective is to improve the management of the security of the eu's external borders, which is why i support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, thereby ensuring a more efficient functioning of the supervisory committee. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to take action to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. in its annual activity reports for 2013 and 2014, the supervisory committee stressed the importance of its independent and effective functioning, which requires an independent and adequately staffed secretariat. it should be underlined that the exercise by the director-general of olaf of his powers, including decisions on promotions and transfers, may potentially lead to a conflict of interest. under the proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be established by the commission and not by olaf. the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and the establishment plan of olaf to the commission. the proposed amendment will therefore have no financial impact. i am in favour of ensuring greater independence for the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, which is why i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, thereby ensuring its more effective functioning. under the proposed regulation, new members will be appointed by the european commission and not by olaf (article 15 (8)). the budgetary appropriation for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from olaf's budget and establishment plan to the commission's budget (article 18). the proposed amendment will therefore have no financial implications for the european budget. the proposal amends the wording of article 10 (4) and (5) so that the powers of the olaf data protection officer will continue to concern data processed by the secretariat. in addition, the secretariat staff will continue to be subject to the same confidentiality rules as before. the cooperation between olaf and the supervisory committee has not been very good in recent years. i hope the growing independence of the oversight committee will solve this problem.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office's supervisory committee plays an important role in assessing the legality and integrity of how european taxpayers' money is spent. the effectiveness of the secretariat has a direct impact on the quality of the committee's work and, consequently, on the quality of its tasks. that is why i am in favour of amending the regulation on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) sets limits on both the maximum and minimum amounts that the eu can spend in each year of the framework's operation, as well as spending limits in the different policy areas. the current mff covers the years 2014-2020. the report in question is parliament's contribution before the publication of this review and covers both the situation in the current mff and the prospects for the next mff after 2020. the report indicates that a comprehensive review is a 'pre-requisite' given the number of crises the eu is facing today that could not have been foreseen when the current mffs were agreed in 2013, and the lack of budgetary capacity to deal with these crises. for the next mffs, the report considers reform of their duration and decision-making process, as well as new sources of own resources. the ecr group made a number of amendments to the draft report, mainly concerning the maintenance of the 2013 agreed spending ceilings, the preservation of the distinction between review and revision of the mff, and the call for the mid-term review to place greater emphasis on performance, public opinion and the budgetary situation of the member states before recommending substantial changes. since the final report reflects these changes in part, i have decided to vote in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) approved by the european parliament in 2013 reflected the union's priorities at the time of its negotiation, and provided a gateway to future challenges with a mandatory review clause and new and strengthened provisions on flexibility and the creation of a high level group on own resources. the migration and refugee crisis, the eu's internal security issues, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funding and the persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people, are just some of the factors that need to be taken into account in the current review. in order to finance additional urgent needs, it was considered necessary to use the flexibility mechanisms and the so-called special instruments available under the mff, as the mff ceilings in some headings proved to be too low. however, as provided for in article 312 tfeu, the previously allocated country-specific envelopes will not be reduced by such a revision. i welcome the outcome of today's vote, which reflects the need for a systematic review of the mff, a key element of the management of union expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the post-election review of the mff for 2014-2020. the multiannual financial framework adopted in 2013 was tailored to the needs of the time and could not have anticipated the challenges we face today. of course, some of the challenges we face - such as youth employment and the crisis in the agricultural sector - are still relevant, but we also have to face the most serious crises in decades, such as the refugee crisis and the growing threat of terrorism. there is no doubt that the review and revision of the mff must take account of these changes and propose solutions to deal effectively with these problems. to do that, you need the right level of funding. but this cannot be done at the expense of commitments already made, as this would make the union look like an unreliable partner, which we cannot afford. therefore, if the currently available resources prove insufficient, the ceilings should be raised accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report contains good solutions for raising the ceilings of the 2014-2020 mff (increasing the ceilings for commitment appropriations under titles 1a, 1b, 3 and 4 as well as increasing the overall ceiling for payment appropriations) and provisions to increase the flexibility of the current mff. the reform of the union's financing system is also important, as is the reference to the idea of tax justice by adding the proposal of corporate taxation as a potential way of raising own resources. attention should also be paid to the impact of the uk referendum on the eu budget. brexit means that the eu budget will be 9 billion euros less per year.
in writing. ‒ it is good that parliament has prepared its position on the revision of the mff before the publication of the commission proposal. this gives hope that it will be possible to influence the draft review, which should appear in the autumn. there is no doubt that much has changed within the union itself and in its international environment since the 2014-2020 mff was agreed at the end of 2013. i would mention the migration crisis, the russian embargo and the crisis in the agricultural sector, and brexit, which will also have significant financial consequences for the eu budget. although some shifts will be necessary to find the means for the most urgent actions, there can be no interference with the so-called national envelopes on which the compromise on the budget is based. the problem of accumulated commitments not covered by the budget should also be addressed as soon as possible in order to avoid the risk of budgetary insolvency at the end of the period, as was the case in the years 2007-2013. the ongoing crisis in the agricultural sector, particularly in the milk market, the lifting of sugar quotas next year and the negative effects of the ongoing russian embargo mean that the cap's restrictive ceilings for 2020 are now at a much lower level than in the previous funding period, which could have a negative impact on the income of millions of farming families in the eu. in the review of the mff, the commission must take this into account.
we voted against it on the merits. it's not just big companies or mid-sized companies that don't pay taxes. everyone who can, tries to cheat on their taxes and avoid paying them. the reason for this is that income tax is simply unfair. people avoid paying what is deeply unfair, and deeply unfair is punishing a man for working, and furthermore, the better he works, the more he has to pay the state for it. at the same time, people who don't work sometimes get benefits for not working. i repeat the words of my colleague who spoke just now: the tax must be fair. the tax that says you pay more the better you work is deeply unfair. the countries have to not standardize taxes, but compete with each other, and then it turns out that people from the country where the tax is higher will flee to the countries where it is better, and this will force the states to maintain normal taxes.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on the interpretation of tax law and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe 2) was set up to finalise the work of the previous special committee (taxe 1). the taxe 1 commission was originally given a mandate to examine the tax interpretation used by the member states. the european parliament considered that a new mandate was necessary because the taxe 1 committee had not been given access to key documents and thus had not been able to complete its work effectively. the second purpose of the new mandate was to follow up the taxe 1 recommendations and to monitor the european commission's response. i support the calls in the draft report for the swift implementation of the oecd recommendations on combating beps (base erosion and profit shifting) and for the improvement of the effectiveness of the code of conduct group in the council. however, the ecr group does not support the excessive injunctions and the accusative language in the report. the ecr group was thus also unable to express support for several of its proposals, including the suspension of free trade agreements with non-cooperating tax jurisdictions and binding union legislation on the favourable taxation of patent revenues. at the same time, a number of critical views emerged during the report's consideration regarding the labelling and designation of individual member states and corporations in the text. with all of the above in mind, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the oecd recommendations, but i cannot agree with the report's comments on the imposition of injunctions and the suspension of free trade agreements. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, the european commission adopted a communication on maximising the contribution of the european structural and investment funds (esif) to the eu's growth strategy, the investment plan and the commission's priorities for 2020. unfortunately, the report underestimates the synergy of cohesion policy with other funds, such as horizon 2020. i believe that synergies with other policies and instruments should be encouraged in order to maximise the impact of investment and the creation of added value. at the same time, we must be aware that there are not enough funds under horizon 2020 and that the resources that have already been reduced to create the efsi should not be reduced further. i voted in favour of the report because of its importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. i am pleased that there is increasing talk of the need for good synergies between the various programmes and eu funds and i appreciate that much has already been done in this direction. i agree with the previous speakers that strengthening synergies can contribute to greater innovation, competitiveness and smart and sustainable growth. but i would also like to draw attention to another point. i have worked for many years, both at local and central level, with beneficiaries of eu funds and i know that sometimes it is difficult for them to navigate the multitude of different instruments and funds. in particular, in the so-called new union countries such as poland, beneficiaries benefit mainly from cohesion policy measures, but do not take advantage of programmes such as horizon 2020. often, this is simply due to a lack of knowledge. i am convinced that creating synergies between these relatively well-known structural and investment funds and other instruments will also have a positive effect in terms of their general familiarity and level of use.
in writing. ‒ all european innovation funds need to be coordinated. this is not just about supporting individual innovation projects, but also about developing a broad perspective. that is why i supported this project, so that the synergy between the two main investment and structural funds and the 'horizon 2020' programme is possible.
in writing. ‒ my support for the ep resolution on synergy for innovation is based on the strong belief that ensuring coordination, synergy and complementarity within the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu programmes directly managed by the commission in the area of research, innovation and competitiveness, cosme, erasmus+, creative europe and the connecting europe facility is not a choice but a responsibility of the european commission and the member states. i would stress that ensuring full coherence and synergies between all the union instruments mentioned above is crucial to achieving the strategic objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive development and avoiding duplication of effort, while complementing national and regional funds and programmes. finally, i would stress that all levels and stages of programming and implementation of initiatives must be taken into account in order to achieve synergies. this includes strategic planning, the development of programmes and work plans, the preparation of contracts, implementation mechanisms and selection procedures, and effective monitoring of implementation.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2017 work programme was drawn up on the basis of the s&d group's proposal. its orientation is strongly left-wing, including:• a significant deepening of european integration;• the european union as the main international partner;• the introduction of one or more new own resources in the eu budget;• the revision of the emf ceiling by raising it;• action to increase european sovereignty. because of the importance of the objectives set out in the commission's work programme, which i consider to be too far-reaching, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. i agree with the commission's priorities, which, while focusing on improving the working and living conditions of citizens in europe, provide for further action to support social investment, in particular poverty reduction, access to quality education, reduction of social inequalities and promotion of quality employment to stimulate economic growth. in order to accelerate economic recovery and to consolidate long-term competitiveness with a view to creating jobs and prosperity, there is an urgent need to develop a new industrial strategy and to take action to support research, development and innovation. i believe that efforts to achieve the energy union must be stepped up to ensure energy security and affordable and sustainable energy for citizens and businesses. i also agree that the security of eu citizens and the ability to respond coherently to the growing influx of refugees must be addressed. it is also necessary to launch an external action plan on the neighbourhood and the global system. the commission should continue to pursue a fair tax policy, including the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. finally, further action is needed to strengthen the eu budget and financial instruments, complete the economic and monetary union and strengthen fundamental rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ we adopted a resolution on the strategic priorities of the commission's 2017 work programme. this year marks the eighth anniversary of the outbreak of the global economic crisis, which hit europe, and the euro area in particular, particularly hard. however, we still cannot say that we have returned to the pre-crisis growth path. the high unemployment rate, especially among young people, and the lack of investment, which the european fund for strategic investments is intended to address at least in part , remain a major problem. recently, brexit has added fuel to the fire, adding to the uncertainty about the future of the european union's economy after the second largest economic power, the united kingdom, leaves. the italian banking system is experiencing the most severe effects, and is in increasing difficulty, posing a real threat not only to italy's weakly growing economy but also to the euro area as a whole. the commission is therefore expected to come forward with legislative proposals to further strengthen the economic and monetary union. brexit should also be a strong incentive to increase the democratic legitimacy of the union and to rebuild public support for the european project in order to prevent its further erosion. the migration issue, which is currently under control as a result of the agreement with turkey, is undoubtedly still a problem, but dynamic changes in this area cannot be excluded and the union must be prepared for these changes.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's work programme is central to eu policies and actions. at the beginning of his term, president juncker made many promises about the commission's working methods, including the principle of better lawmaking (quality and transparency of legislation) and the withdrawal of projects that were unnecessary from the point of view of the subsidiarity principle. as the commission's proposed programme does not fulfil many of these promises, i voted against the commission's draft work programme for 2017.
in writing. ‒ japan is legally bound by a global moratorium on commercial whaling imposed by the international whaling commission (iwc). despite the moratorium, it is fishing on a large scale, taking advantage of a loophole in the rules that allows fishing on special terms for 'scientific purposes', particularly in the arctic. i believe that there is no case for allowing deadly scientific research on whales, and the japanese program is completely unnecessary and undermines the global moratorium. hunting of all whales (whales, dolphins and porpoises) beyond the limited activities of the indigenous population for survival should be strongly opposed. whaling involves unnecessary cruelty, and the only legitimate use of their existence is responsible tourism practices. i support the joint text of the resolution, calling for the iwc moratorium to be maintained and encouraging japan to develop alternative industries that support local communities, such as whale watching. i voted to accept the procedural document.
in writing. ‒ it is worth urging japan to take action to protect endangered whale species, especially since the international court of justice has ruled that this is the case. the extinction of this species could have negative consequences not only for japan, but also for the entire region and other economies that cooperate with it.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the council decided to accelerate the implementation of a list of 29 measures to strengthen the european union's engagement in belarus. one of them is the review of the union's approach to loans from the european investment bank. the assessment of the economic, political and environmental situation has led to the conclusion that there are grounds for considering belarus as a country eligible for eib financing under the union guarantees, which would also be the practical effect of the application of the delegated act. despite the optimistic assessment of the ec, there is reason to believe that the belarusian authorities have not improved their human rights and political freedoms, and the elections scheduled for september 2016 will show whether any changes can be expected in this area. nevertheless, taking into account all aspects, including the existing grounds for recognising the law of belarus, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu's position towards belarus should be clear. financial support is only possible if all political, civil and human freedoms are respected. without respect for the latter, there can be no question of high lending and activity by the european investment bank. that is why i supported the opposition to the eu financial guarantee plans for belarus.
in writing. ‒ following the release of political prisoners on 22 august 2015, the eu lifted sanctions against 170 belarusian individuals and three companies. however, since then, the human rights situation in the country has not improved. the authorities have not restored the civil rights of former political prisoners, nor have they taken steps to abolish the punishment of littering. the osce/odihr observation mission during the 2015 presidential elections concluded that 'significant problems, especially during the counting and reconciliation of votes, undermined the integrity of the electoral process'. however, until now the belarusian authorities have not implemented the recommendations set out in the final report of the osce/odihr mission. the upcoming parliamentary elections on 11 september 2016 will be a crucial test to see if the authorities are really willing to engage with citizens in accordance with democratic values. the ep would therefore only be able to take a fully informed decision and properly assess the delegated act after the elections and on the basis of the osce/odihr report. this unfortunate confluence of dates could have the opposite political consequences and a negative impact on the situation of the democratic opposition. for this reason, i supported the resolution which opposes the granting of an eu guarantee to the eib to cover losses in respect of belarus at this particular time. i am not against the launch of the guarantee procedure, but it should be after the elections, after some progress has been made in electoral standards.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act requires the institution supervising the winding-up to set minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel) that will sufficiently ensure that the institution under winding-up can absorb losses, recapitalise sufficiently and continue to operate. the ecr group did not express the need to object for the following reasons: (1) the minimum contribution requirement is sufficiently reflected in the current delegated act by reference to the requirements set out in article 44 of the bank restructuring and orderly liquidation directive (brrd); (2) as regards the amount of recapitalisation, the supervisory authority applies the most recent values to determine the appropriate total risk exposure ratio or leverage ratio when estimating the capital needs of the institution. (3) in the case of a transitional period, the supervisory authority may set an appropriate transitional period to achieve the final minimum requirement for own funds and liabilities (mrel) and it should be as short as possible. the cor also agreed with the rapporteur for the brrd, mr hökmar (epl), that banks need legislative certainty in setting mrel requirements. with that in mind, i voted against.
blue-card question. – do you think that the european union can survive when young boys are being taught in schools that aggression is something wrong – that boys should not be aggressive? can the european union survive?
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. the document you have prepared is a realistic assessment of the international situation, although it is perhaps a little too optimistic about the european union's foreign policy and its possibilities. i am pleased that russia and relations with russia have been identified in this document as a 'key strategic challenge', although a number of countries would like to continue to use the phrase 'strategic partner' as it was used with regard to russia before the annexation of crimea. it also rightly states that the union can no longer rely solely on the use of soft power, but also needs military force. europeans really need to take more responsibility for their own security and have the military capability to respond to external threats, which we know are large. and of course, we have to take into account that the fundamental pillar of defense for many of us - perhaps for all of us - is nato, as the document explicitly confirms. the union should further deepen its cooperation with nato, seeking synergies and focusing primarily on what it does best: strategic civilian projects of relevance to enhancing the defence of the union and nato. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. my dear fellow! i come from a country whose soldiers fought for the freedom of france in 1940, whose pilots fought for the freedom of britain, and whose people fought for the freedom of europe from 1939 to 1945. i can assure you of one thing: no, the soviet union did not liberate us. i have lived under communism for thirty-seven years and believe me, the sooner that part of the french public and politicians understand this, the better for europe.
mr president, the high commissioner! i would like to add three elements to this document, three opinions: firstly, a strategy, and a global one at that, should always be drawn up as it stands, and in my opinion, this has been achieved, with the high commissioner's sympathy, because it is not an easy task if we also have brexit. the second key thing is that we have almost everything in this document, which is very good, but what is missing in this message is a hierarchy of values of problems. i think that saying that all issues are equally important is a kind of mistake, maybe not a big one, but a mistake nonetheless. secondly, we are all of course convinced that europe's security is energy security, cyber security, security linked to financial, economic and social conditions. i think the social situation in europe is worse than it should be. there are a number of factors, but i'm going to talk about one of them because it's crucial to me. we must remember that solidarity in europe must be based on respect for diversity and sovereignty, but at the same time we must always remind those who are fighting for sovereignty that sovereignty cannot reduce the internal solidarity of europe. the social condition must also be conditioned by the third element: good information, the fight against propaganda and a good presentation of those achievements which undoubtedly belong to parliament, to the parliamentary institutions, to the european institutions. we have a giant problem with this. we have a gigantic problem with internal communication in europe. for spain and portugal, security is not important today because they don't feel threatened. for poland, lithuania, estonia and latvia, it is crucial. we have to remember that diversity, too.
mr. minister, mr. president, i have to go. my colleagues are praising the quartet report, and i have just read that both the president of the palestinian authority and the prime minister of israel are calling for its rejection. so, is it not true that we are glorifying something that obviously for some obvious reason has failed? we are satisfied with the text, which both sides of the conflict criticize. as regards the proper role of the union, it should build confidence in the middle east. and i think that means not just helping the palestinians who are in need, but also trying to preserve israel, its society. i think that the union is losing this confidence in the face of some strange behaviour: for example, the fact that some member states, and the european union as well, are financing organisations which openly adhere to the principle of boycotting the state of israel, or president abbas' speech, which was inappropriate at times but did not receive the right response from our colleagues... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! if we really want a two-state solution - and at least, as you hear the declaration in this room, it seems that we all want it - then the first thing to do is to abandon any pressure on the state of israel. the only way to achieve a two-state solution is through bilateral talks, not through international pressure. madam president, you heard president abbas's shocking speech in brussels two weeks ago. we all hear extreme voices here, unresponsive to terrorism, unresponsive to national security requirements. madam president! there's so much talk about populism! don't give in to populists who can't think about history because they think it's a headache.
the european union, and in particular our parliament, is actively involved in the middle east peace process. it's a noble goal, but it's a very difficult one. over the decades, many peace initiatives have been launched in the region. europeans are particularly interested in stability in the middle east, in jerusalem, because it is the birthplace of three great religions: christianity, judaism and islam. two weeks ago, we hosted the president of israel and the president of palestine at the european parliament in brussels. both pointed to the casualties that almost daily result from this conflict. their speeches showed that not only was an agreement a long way off, but that it might even be impossible. but it is good that we have taken new initiatives and come up with proposals, even though the position of the european union has weakened considerably in recent days, it has been shaken by the decision of the citizens of the united kingdom to leave the union. we must therefore be all the more careful that our initiatives are balanced and do not accidentally produce the opposite effect, that is, that instead of helping to move the peace process forward, they do not further antagonize both sides.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, first of all i think this was a very useful exchange and most of the remarks you just made will constitute for sure the basis for our exchanges with the chinese interlocutors in the summit in beijing next week. not only during the summit but also obviously in the meetings and talks we will have around the summit, which will also constitute an important part of our work. i also particularly appreciated the clarity of your comments on the challenges we are facing in our relations with china, and in particular when it comes to overcapacity, when it comes to human rights – and by the way, yes, i am pleased to be joined by stavros for the incoming debate we are going to have now on human rights – but also as i said on overcapacity, on human rights, on market access and i would add an issue that few of you if none of you really pointed out, the issue of security in asia, which is not a minor issue because it affects also, somehow, global stability and also our own security, and the issue of the south china sea will be an important element of our discussions there. obviously i also heard again the considerations of many of you on the market economy status, as you have seen this is not the main issue, it is not the issue of the strategy we discuss tonight, i know that you had occasion to exchange with cecila malmström very recently in this hemicycle specifically on this, and i am sure that you will have soon occasions to do so again. it is obviously part of our work on china more than with china at this stage, but indeed it is central in our considerations. the joint communication aims the strategy at two things. first, being very honest and crystal clear on the challenges and difficulties we have in front of us in all these sectors – security, trade, especially market access and overcapacity and human rights – but also to create a common ground of the european union on a positive and forward-looking basis for a collective engagement on the opportunities that we can and must seize in our relations with china. you all remembered and recalled the numbers, and if you look at the word, if you take the european union united, it is us, it is us, the chinese and the americans working on the same level in terms of size, but on very different standards and this is the issue we have to work on, and this is what we are doing. so i get from the debate an overall support, quite an overwhelming support, for the strategy, for the fact that we do have a strategy and also for, and a final point here, the need to have a coordinated and well-orchestrated common action and common voice in our relations with china. i am sure that your activities as a parliament vis-à-vis china, the many visits, again most of your colleagues might be there in this moment, but all the initiatives you have as european parliament, as groups, as committees, will accompany us in, now, the implementation of this strategy and tackling the challenges in the most useful way for our european citizens and businesses and also helping us get the benefits of a relationship that is strategic for europe – and also for china by the way.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, stavros was hinting at the fact that five debates in a row might constitute a violation of human rights, but it’s ok. today we are indeed touching upon the old spectrum of our foreign policies, priorities and instruments, so i am glad that we are also having our annual debate on human rights, which is an opportunity for me to present our annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. in a world that is clearly in turmoil, some believe that human rights can be a secondary concern, that we need first to focus on fire-fighting and crisis management and only then, afterwards, can we look at the human rights dimension – as if it was a luxury element that we can afford tackling only when the situation calms down. we have seen how short—sighted this approach can be and our global strategy – and the european union cannot be more explicit on this – is that for our european union, investing in human rights is a matter of values, but it is also a matter of interests. there is no way in which we can make our societies strong and societies in our neighbourhood and in the world strong and resilient also to crises if we do not focus relentlessly on human rights. this is not a luxury. this is an investment in security and stability as well. this is even more true as human rights and basic humanitarian principles are coming under increasing pressure. the space for civil society is shrinking in many parts of the world and very close to home as well. constant violations are at the very root of each and every crisis we try to address in the international arena. they are behind a great deal of the migratory flows we are facing and behind the new peak in global displacement that was recorded this year by the un high commissioner for refugees. there is no viable crisis management, there is no crisis prevention if we do not address human rights violations properly. the report provides a clear picture of all our human rights activities and we have strived to be focused on the areas in which our action was particularly prominent following last year’s suggestion from this parliament. at times our work goes almost unnoticed by the wider public for years. think of our teachers and aid workers fighting for everyone’s right to good schools and good education. think of the men and women who challenge the culture of female genital mutilation in remote communities. they might not make the headlines in the international media, but such patient work is making so many people better off. let me tell you that i appreciate this house recognising this kind of work constantly, in particular with the prizes you give. every now and then results do come into the spotlight. just months ago almost one hundred and fifty people from political parties and from civil society were pardoned in azerbaijan – something that we have been working on for a long time and that is done. such results owe much to the continuous dedication of our special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, who i imagine you know well and who is with us today, and we can now count also on the work of mara marinaki, the first ever principal adviser fully dedicated to gender in the external action service. in a very difficult year for human rights much work has been done and has brought some results. i think of our work on the reconciliation process in myanmar. i think of our work on the peace deal between the colombian government and the farc. when we work with them we promote accountability, democracy, justice for the victims and real peace, which means real rights. we have also focused on individual cases. over 160 human rights defenders and their families have received support in 2015 through dedicated funding for human rights defenders at risk. you know how many statements we issue on this kind of cases and let me tell you that sometimes i personally feel a little bit of frustration about the statements because a statement does not change reality on the ground. but on the other hand, it is so important for the activists and the human rights defenders or the victims on the spot to see that the european union speaks out for them and does not forget any single violation of human rights in the world. we know that this is also an essential part of our work and of our responsibility. beyond that, there is so much work happening off the radar. as you know very well, i raise human rights issues with all relevant interlocutors with no exception, always and everywhere, even where this is more difficult to do. we have just finished a discussion with china and that is a perfect example of this coherent work that, let me stress, is something that the european union constantly and coherently and consistently does. it would be good if all member states would do exactly the same in their bilateral relations as well. let me be very clear on the fact that the overall picture is clearly not rosy. this year we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the un human rights council and the 50th anniversary of the international covenants on civil and political rights and on economic, social and cultural rights. still the global situation of human rights does not leave room for much celebration. new restrictions on civil liberties are being imposed in many parts of our immediate region. attacks against human rights defenders, activists and journalists are on the rise and in several cases european citizens were among the victims of torture and other abuses. allow me to mention here the tragedy of giulio regeni which is particularly close to our hearts and to our daily work. it is time for us to take even more decisive action building on four fundamental pillars. first, our action will still focus on conflict areas – syria, libya, yemen, the whole middle east, and we will keep working on post-conflict reconciliation as we are doing, as i said, in colombia and in myanmar. there can be no sustainable peace if we do not mend the wounds of communities and societies. second, we need to keep in mind there is not only one way and one recipe for human rights. we need to engage on a broad spectrum of actions from efforts at community level in the field of transitional justice to the international criminal court. third, we have to continue our work to preserve and to broaden the space for civil society, to fight for the freedom of expression and of the press, support human rights defenders, sustain progress in electoral processes – and let me thank this parliament for our precious partnership on electoral observation missions. it does make a difference in so many places. fourth and almost last, we need to renew our efforts to end the death penalty and the use of torture worldwide. 2015 was a difficult year also in this regard and we can only increase the pressure in all fora to wipe the death penalty off our world. many of these initiatives are a concrete follow-up to the eu action plan on human rights and democracy that was adopted just one year ago. so, last but not least, we have to put human rights at the core of all our policy areas. this begins with migration and displacement. let me tell you very clearly we need to step up our commitment and our work for human rights all along the routes of migration – inside the refugee camps in africa and in the middle east, across the desert, at sea and here at home in europe. i know that some of you, maybe not those present here but others, might not like to hear this because we always reflect on human rights thinking this is something outside of our borders. we have to be consistent and coherent. we say also in our global strategy that our foreign policy starts at home. the point is that our credibility starts at home, and this is true even more than in all other fields when it comes to human rights. we will not be a credible advocate of human rights worldwide if we do not preserve the highest, and i underline twice, the highest standards here in the european union. as europeans we cannot tolerate xenophobia. as europeans we cannot tolerate anti-semitism and as europeans we cannot tolerate islamophobia. we cannot tolerate violence and intimidation against any minority on any grounds. our credibility as a global human rights champion depends on our actions and also on our words. we have a big responsibility and we have to exercise it to the full.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. your highness! i wanted to thank you very much for the fact that the foreign affairs council has just presented its report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015, on 20 june, and we can discuss it today. this is what we sometimes call european 'soft power', to which you also referred today in the earlier debate on security policy. first of all, i would like to say that in the area of human rights and democracy, 2015 was a very difficult, if not dramatic, year, because armed conflicts, ongoing fighting, and the intensity of terrorist attacks, and with them the victims, are also something that threatens democracy, which threatens above all the security of individual citizens. many citizens of the world have had to change their place of residence. it is said that over 60 million people have been displaced. often the decision to travel the world was accompanied by false promises, often even with the risk of death. it was another year of worsening conditions for the world's believers, especially christians and other religious, national and ethnic minorities, especially in the middle east. thirdly, i would like to say that the issue of religious freedom has found its place in the report. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's policy on freedom of religion or belief in the member states. i would also like to point out that the so-called quiet diplomacy has also had its successes. it saved asia bibi from execution in pakistan, but it also freed many detainees from prison. we would like to thank minister stavros lambrinidis.
mr president, christians were present in the middle east for over 2 000, years along with other religious minorities. in contemporary times, due you to unbelievable atrocities perpetrated by so-called da’esh, they face the real challenge of disappearing from the region that once used to be their cradle. in its resolution of 4 february the european parliament indicated these atrocities as a crime against humanity and asked for further action on the level of united nations. on the other hand, in the east we face persisting violence of human rights in annexed crimea as well as ukrainian political prisoners still kept hostage in russian prisons. i name these things in order to make them evident in the annual reports.
mr president, i am very pleased to be able to speak on this report. as i have said on several occasions, i consider the human rights agenda to be of the utmost importance in our work and it is good that we are here to debate the report on what happened in 2015 in this agenda and what the european commission, the european parliament and the high commissioner have done in this agenda. i'd like to make a few small observations. i think it is very good that the human rights defenders support programme has been launched, that last year the european union gave a total of 160 human rights defenders financial cash in the form of grants. i think this is exactly the area for the future where we would have in countries where there is simply no democracy, no possibility of freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, to support those who are trying to defend the ideas of human rights and fight against the totalitarian regimes there. i consider it very important that the european union is actively involved in monitoring electoral processes around the world, and that this can help make elections in some countries fairer and more democratic than they would be without the presence of external observers, such as those from the european union. however, allow me to make one small comment. we always discuss the human rights situation in particular countries, the current problems, and i think that in the future we should link our development aid more closely to the respect for human rights and democracy in the particular countries to which it flows.
mr. chairman, please! the debate is about activities which, i dare say, will not end in the near future, because we will always find cases of human rights violations, lack of democracy. first of all, from our point of view, it's crucial to keep your sensitivity. and that sensitivity in the report was preserved. secondly, it is particularly important to be consistent. for many years, i have consistently pointed out that we should reward morally those who support and contribute to solutions, and we do. and finally, financial instruments: we show that we have these financial instruments and we use them. let's build a sense of the need for sensitivity! i welcome this report. dear high representative, dear stavros: do your thing, this is the right direction. we're helping, but we know that we're not going to solve the whole world.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i think we should focus on the absolutely fundamental issues. the fundamental human freedom is religious freedom and it is good that the report is about this area, but i would like it to be discussed in the most truthful way possible, without internal censorship. without a doubt, the most persecuted religious group is christians, and this needs to be said very clearly, but not to create any kind of animosity towards the muslim world, just because it is true. christians are the group that experiences the most religious persecution. if our report calls for no punishment for apostasy, for respect for freedom of religion, for no one to suffer criminal sanctions for their freedom, for religious freedom, then it must be said that these sanctions apply only to christians. i say that because it's very difficult to mobilize public opinion without telling the truth. that's what i'm calling for.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the un convention against corruption, ratified by all eu states, in article 33 on the protection of whistleblowers, encourages states to create legal systems to protect whistleblowers from the negative consequences of corruption. the council of europe's civil law convention on corruption also obliges parties to protect such persons from consequences in article 9 on the protection of workers. both conventions indicate that persons acting in good faith and on legitimate grounds should be protected. whistleblowers should be protected because their knowledge of the internal organisation of the institution and its mechanisms of functioning allows them to react most quickly when they detect phenomena that threaten other staff, the institution or cause harm outside it. their activity is essential for the disclosure of irregularities, so such protection should be guaranteed by law and strengthened throughout the european union, but only if the whistleblower's aim is to protect the general public interest by acting in good faith. the european court of human rights ruled on this issue in its july 2011 judgment, stating that courts and member states should only provide protection to whistleblowers if their disclosure is clearly and unequivocally in the public interest. in its judgment of november 2012, the same court held that authorities should not restrict or reduce in any way the ability of whistleblowers and journalists to document and disclose illegal, unlawful or harmful practices if disclosure of such information in good faith in the public interest is a priority.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank held stevens very much for the titanic work on this report. it is estimated that 80 million people in the european union are disabled - that is a lot. this number makes us aware of the challenges, the enormous responsibility and the work that still lies ahead. it has been said that the measure of a modern civilization is its attitude toward the disabled. another motto is well known: there is no disabled person, there is a person. it is therefore our sacred duty to ensure that persons with disabilities have the inalienable right to dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in family and community life, and to ensure that children with disabilities develop their potential and are fully integrated into school life. but we also have to remember very important things: people with disabilities don't need consolation, they need understanding, they don't need compassion, they need genuine respect, they don't need extra legal solutions, they need legal guarantees of equal opportunity and equal treatment. thus, to help them effectively and effectively, we must simultaneously mold their consciences and the attitudes of the environment in which they live.
ladies and gentlemen! my dear helga! i would like to start by congratulating you on your excellent report and the involvement of a wide representation of disabled people, and thank you for your excellent cooperation. i agree that accessibility is as important in the physical environment as it is in information and communication technologies. as digital skills and the use of modern technologies are becoming a prerequisite for functioning in the labour market, the availability of technology and devices and the promotion of employability-enhancing skills are key to building an inclusive society in which all citizens can enjoy their rights and contribute to the common good. new technologies, while providing an opportunity to remove barriers, can also be a source of constraints. the widespread introduction of touch screens prevents blind people from using elevators and many other appliances on their own. can a solution that leads to the exclusion of a significant group of citizens be called modern? i'm sure you didn't. i believe that the dynamic work on the european accessibility act will help to avoid such pseudo-follow-up in the future.
mr. chairman, please! this report provides valuable recommendations for the eu institutions in the area of the implementation of the un convention. more than 80 million people with different degrees of disability live in the member states of the european union, of whom only 58% are in the labour market. the employment rate of women with disabilities is alarmingly low at 44%. it is therefore very clear that a significant proportion of disabled people remain outside the labour market and those who are employed largely do not use their competences and skills to their full potential. to tackle the demographic challenges facing europe and maintain the current standard of living, we will need to make full use of all the human resources we have, including those with disabilities. the social economy and the new technology sector mean that disability is very often no longer a significant barrier to work. there are still barriers in our heads. the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities was supposed to help us change the way we see people with disabilities. but practice shows that this is still a huge problem. i do not understand why the council has not agreed to include documents relating to disability in the scope of the regulation on the recognition of official documents. this will make it much more difficult for disabled people to find work throughout europe.
in writing. the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010. it is the first bilateral human rights treaty to be ratified by the european union as a whole at international level. as a result of its accession to the convention, the european union is obliged to draw up a report on the measures taken to fulfil the conditions laid down in the convention. i am totally against discrimination against disabled people and i believe that everything should be done to counteract it. every citizen should have unlimited access to all services and thus should be able to enjoy fully the rights that the european union gives. people with disabilities both intellectual, physical and psychosocial should receive help and support. i believe that a dialogue should be developed involving the commission and organisations of people with disabilities in order to ensure that the european union's policy strategy is as beneficial as possible for people with disabilities.
when i look at the fruit of this consensus, i feel sick: it calls, it grieves, it welcomes, it thinks: "this is your lordship". if we want to do something, let's do something concrete. when the americans were in trouble because the freed african americans couldn't help themselves, they bought them a piece of land in africa and created the state of liberia, where later on, these african americans killed africans. maybe we should buy a piece of africa. african governments promise to help, to give a piece of land. let's make a state for albinos, add some money. it would be something concrete, because what we're talking about here is just worshipful talk that's not going to help anybody. i ask: why can't we have a state for albinos in africa? and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. albinism of unexplained cause is 10 to 15 times more common in the region of south-east africa than anywhere else in the world. those afflicted live in constant fear of being attacked, maimed, or even raped, which is believed to cure aids. children are placed in special centers for safety, but once they reach adulthood, the problem of life-threatening returns. according to the un, there have been about 70 attacks on people with vitiligo in malawi, which has about 10,000 people, since the end of 2014. this indicates a growing and real threat to the lives of this segment of the population. national authorities must be more committed to protecting this vulnerable group, as well as to educating citizens and promoting the rights of people with albinism. it is important that the union, its member states, in cooperation with the south east african states, monitor the situation and provide all possible assistance - from the exchange of good practices to technical support - to stop these barbaric acts of violence.
in writing. ‒ the 71st ordinary session of the united nations general assembly will be held in september at un headquarters in new york. the assembly shall have the power to make recommendations to states on international matters within its competence. the convention has initiated many political, economic, humanitarian, social, and legal actions that have affected the lives of millions of people around the world. the report makes a number of recommendations to the un general assembly in areas such as peace and security, migration, the fight against global terrorism, women's rights and un reform. in general, i support close cooperation with the united nations and other international organisations to jointly address foreign policy, security and humanitarian challenges. i also support reform of the united nations to make it more transparent, faster and more effective so that it can meet the many challenges facing the world today. but that does not mean that i think the european union has won its own seat on the un security council. the united kingdom and france should not be forced to give up their un security council mandates to the eu as part of any reforms. with that in mind, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i believe that working with the united nations and other international organisations to jointly address foreign policy, security and humanitarian challenges is an integral part of our work and i also support the reform of the un to improve its ability to deal with today's crises. the mandates at the un should be fulfilled by european states alone, which is why i did not support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ there are about 80 million people with disabilities in the european union. it should be remembered that they are full citizens of the union, with equal rights, the right to dignity, to live independently, to be independent and to be supported by publicly funded systems. in this context, instruments such as the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities are essential to protect and ensure the full enjoyment of the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament today endorsed a report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which refers to specific european commission guidelines falling within eu competence, which may pose a problem in the implementation of new recommendations at national level. discrimination on the grounds of disability must be strongly opposed. this is particularly relevant for women, girls and children with disabilities, the elderly and those in need of complex support, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities. the eu institutions should be a role model for other member states in the implementation of the convention, both in terms of their staff regulations and recruitment practices and access to public events organised at parliament's premises.
in writing. ‒ the document concerns the approval of health claims for caffeine. the objector justifies it as being incompatible with the objectives of the basic act, arguing that statements concerning alertness and concentration cannot be made to children, including adolescents, stressing that adolescents are the largest group of consumers of energy drinks. furthermore, the resolution states that in the absence of the nutritional profiles that the commission was required to establish under the food claims regulation (1924/2006), the claims on caffeine can be used for energy drinks that have a higher sugar content. experts say the objection is flawed and exaggerates certain aspects. contrary to what the text says, this measure applies to all products containing caffeine, not just energy drinks. energy drinks account for only 1% of the total eu soft drink market, and calories from all drinks account for only 3% of all calories consumed in the eu. in addition, efsa estimates that the vast majority of calories in the diet of adolescents come from chocolate, coffee and tea. i personally think that some of the concerns raised in the document are valid. experience with caffeine use may give the illusion that the consumption of caffeine and caffeine-containing products (including energy drinks) is good for health. however, i believe that the substance of the document should be further developed, and i therefore abstained.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! in recent years, we have seen a rise in protectionism among the member states of the european union. this is partly due to the economic crisis. this problem also affects trade in agri-foodstuffs, where non-tariff barriers targeting specific groups of exporters are becoming more frequent. we have already signalled the seriousness of this problem together with various organizations. we have also taken various actions, including organising seminars and workshops in the european parliament in june 2015 and february this year. we relied on a report by a well-known research company, carried out as part of the 'single europe varied food' project run by the federation of agricultural producers' trade unions, a member of the european organisation copa cogeca. the report shows the increasing frequency of non-tariff barriers for food exporters. the most common ways of discouraging exports are: increased frequency of health checks, negative press campaigns, the need to store records of transactions for many years, additional certificates, short expiry dates of permits, etc. it is estimated that more than 30% of products exported between the member states of the union are subject to non-tariff import barriers. the losses incurred as a result of the additional measures that exporters have to take due to these barriers are estimated at around 4% of the total export value. this is a very worrying phenomenon, because it threatens the proper functioning of the greatest and most important european project, the common single market. the increasing introduction by member states of non-tariff barriers to food exporters on the internal market and the fact that these actions are incompatible with union law undermine one of the four fundamental freedoms of the union, namely the free movement of goods. these actions are not only discriminatory but also affect competitiveness in the internal market in a way that may have negative effects on the economy of the union as a whole. this is all the more important in view of the serious crisis currently facing the european agri-food sector, which requires, inter alia, the smooth functioning of the internal market. protectionist measures may also have a negative impact on the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises in the agri-food sector in the internal market. i would therefore like to ask the european commission the following question on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development. first, what legal action does the commission intend to take against member states that discriminate against food exporters in the union? secondly, has the commission examined the above mentioned problems and is it considering introducing eu legislation prohibiting such practices which negatively affect food imports into the member state concerned within the eu single market? this is to ensure the proper, fair and transparent functioning of the union's internal market for the benefit of food producers, traders and consumers alike. thirdly, in the context of the internal market strategy adopted by the european commission in october 2015, i would like to ask whether the commission is considering proposing strong action to limit the use of protectionist measures and unacceptable practices by member states in the internal market. will the commission examine the possibility of introducing union rules prohibiting such practices in relation to food imports, in order to guarantee the proper, fair and transparent functioning of the union internal market and in the interests of food producers, retailers and consumers, and when does it intend to do so?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. non-tariff barriers to food exporters introduced by certain member states in the internal market of the european union restrict the free movement of goods guaranteed by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the numerous obstacles are nothing but discrimination against food exporters in the european union and disrupt the smooth and transparent functioning of the union's internal market. commissioner, you said you agreed with the comments. so why has the commission - since the problem did not arise today - not taken effective action to prevent these difficulties for exporters? does the commission monitor the so-called technical, additional regulations or additional obstacles introduced by individual eu countries and does it intend to take any specific effective action to prevent this?
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that we have touched today on a very important issue which is a violation of the principle of free movement of goods. there can be no situation in the european single market where one country discriminates against another. we are not only talking about additional certificates, controls, negative press campaigns on imported food, but also about administrative barriers that generate additional costs and losses. i think that the european commission should be more active in this area, react very quickly and punish this type of behaviour. the rashness or lack of decisive action on the part of the european commission really only gives nationalists and opponents of the european union more arguments.
in writing. the widespread introduction by member states of non-tariff barriers to food exporters in the internal market and the fact that these actions are contrary to eu law undermine one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, namely the free movement of goods. barriers faced on a daily basis by food exporters include the requirement to have additional certificates not required by community law, increased frequency of health checks and long detention of trucks, the obligation to keep documents relating to the transaction for a long time, the obligation to keep these documents in the country of destination, the short period of authorisation, and the frequent change of administrative fees. additional barriers also apply to negative media campaigns about poor food quality. the commission should examine as soon as possible the possibility of introducing eu rules prohibiting such practices in relation to food imports in order to guarantee the proper, fair and transparent functioning of the eu internal market in the interests of food producers and retailers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union is full of declarations of love for the common market and competition, but behind these declarations there is less of it and no more of it, as the recent agricultural debate illustrated. our question to the commission draws attention to new forms which may not be protectionist in their intention but are certainly so in their effect. these include the minimum wage in germany, and recently the rules in france, but not the minimum wage itself, of course, but the reference to transport and transit. i assure you that for the east, transit through germany is transit without choice. drivers have to drive through germany; they drive expecting a decent wage, and companies expect a decent profit. it's a fair competition, beneficial to the recipients of these services. thank you for your clarification, but i find it difficult to consider the progress of the work with berlin and the other countries that are implementing this satisfactory.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are talking about minimum wages in the context of international transport, although contrary to what we might think, it is not just the amount of wages that is at issue. the hourly rates imposed by france and germany on polish businesses, among others, in violation of the treaty, are only the tip of the iceberg. the other part of the mountain that could drown the sector in poland and other eastern european countries is the frequent checks, the need for expensive document translation, disproportionate financial penalties of hundreds of thousands of euros or the obligation to maintain a representative office abroad. meeting these requirements requires a huge financial effort, often beyond the capabilities of entrepreneurs. the commission has taken appropriate legal action, but the scope of this action is too narrow. the problem is not limited to transit traffic. what about the application of these rules to cross-border transport and cabotage? will the commission take up this matter? the question for the future also remains: what does the commissioner plan to do to ensure that similar rules do not apply in other countries? the legal uncertainty we face today is the biggest problem. in the current climate, we need the commission's efficiency and determination to carry out its core tasks more than ever before.
the question asked by raising the blue card. for years, we have seen the introduction of national protectionist legislation restricting access to the single market or imposing disproportionately high penalties or administrative burdens in order to eliminate foreign competition. do you not think that this protectionism, this breach of the treaties, is leading to chaos in the european union and to a growing dissatisfaction of european society with its membership of the union?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the single european market is one of the greatest achievements of european integration. the actions of some member states to restrict the freedom to provide transport services within the european union are therefore of great concern. the decisions of the german and french governments to impose on carriers from other eu countries the obligation to apply minimum wages in transit and international transport are contrary to the principle of freedom to provide services, infringe the rules of competition, raise the operating costs of european companies and cause the loss of many jobs. even more damaging are the additional administrative requirements imposed on carriers from other countries, such as the need to keep extensive documentation in the language of the country of destination or the obligation to open a representative office. these actions are contrary to european law and clearly contrary to common sense. i therefore call on the commission to take more vigorous action to protect the functioning of the single market in transport services. i also call on the governments of the member states to abandon these protectionist practices which are undermining the efficiency of european economies and are damaging to us all. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, you said at the end of your speech that this is how competition is destroyed, that such practices are harmful to us all. i'd like to ask you to be more specific: all of us, what do you mean? i think we are not paying attention at all, or not enough attention, to the needs of the european union's consumers. do you agree that the consumer in the european union, the one who uses this transport, needs a market where there is competition so that he can choose the best and cheapest service?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. they raise the cost of running european companies and therefore raise the cost of living and the cost of living in the european union. all of this is reflected in the consumer, but the consumer is the silent majority. we should also be defending the interests of consumers here in this chamber, and not just asking whether a fair wage is a right that everyone in the european union should aspire to. i also want to say that it is not written anywhere that fundamental human rights mean equal pay, because wages depend on productivity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. today's debate concerns one of the most sensational and controversial issues of recent times, namely the introduction of protectionist practices within the european union's single market. the inclusion of foreign transport companies in national minimum wage rules by germany - not to mention other bureaucratic barriers - and then by france is unilateral and incompatible with both article 56 of the treaty and the posting of workers directive. the commission's infringement procedure against germany is far too long, too narrow and focuses only on transit. i am convinced that the commission can and should do more to protect the integrity of the single market. the commissioner's answer is highly inadequate. the minimum wage is a very necessary tool, but it cannot be used as a means of eliminating competition and circumventing treaty freedoms.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. have studies been carried out on the effects of the introduction of minimum wage rates? have these analyses taken into account how this will affect the lives of the thousands of people employed by transport companies? what will happen to those companies which, in order to ensure the quality of their services and the working conditions of their drivers, have taken out loans to buy modern cars nota bene in other european union countries such as germany, france, the scandinavian countries and italy? how will these companies be able to meet these financial obligations when they are also faced with a significant increase in administrative costs? how does the introduction of minimum wage rates, given the potential impact on the labour market in poland, relate to the european union's policy to reduce unemployment and to the policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the member states? i don't know the answers to these questions. who will take responsibility if my fears are confirmed?
mr. chairman, please! this debate is adjourned until 5:00 p.m. it's 4:40 p.m. and i think there's a couple of people here who... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. i consider the application of the minimum rate by germany to transport operations within germany to be harmful and dangerous for the single market, and i am therefore pleased that the european commission is examining the compatibility of these provisions with european law. it should be borne in mind that such a solution would create an additional and, above all, unnecessary administrative burden for foreign companies operating on the german market, would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and would, moreover, be contrary to the fundamental principles of the free movement of goods and services. we have said many times in this chamber that we need more europe and more solidarity, especially in these difficult times. i therefore believe that a rapid and positive solution to this problem can be an example of how we in europe act together and in solidarity, and i therefore encourage the european commission to clarify these doubts as soon as possible.
in writing. commissioner, for several years now we have seen the introduction of national, protectionist legislation restricting access to the single market or providing for disproportionately high penalties or administrative burdens just to get rid of foreign competition. the european commission should stand firmly on the side of the provisions of the treaties and the fundamental freedoms of the european union. if this does not happen, it will undermine the overall purpose of creating a single union law. today, none of us is questioning the right of any member state to set a minimum wage in its own country. however, the problem is the extent to which this salary applies to persons employed in other member states and its compatibility with the freedom to provide services in the internal market. as a member of the committee on employment, i ask to what extent the posting of workers directive applies to workers in the transport sector. what types of transport are covered and which transport sectors? the answers to these questions are essential for transport operators and transport workers to continue their work. as of 1 january 2015, in germany and as of 1 july of that year in france, laws have entered into force which are clearly protectionist in nature. the european commission has therefore rightly initiated infringement proceedings against germany. but a year later, we still had no concrete answers. how long will this chaos continue? on behalf of the carriers and the transport workers, i ask for a specific answer.
in writing. commissioner, we cannot agree with the attempts by some member states to introduce legislation that provides for disproportionately high penalties and administrative burdens for companies that comply with the law and fair competition. competitive advantage resulting from lower labour costs due to differences in economic development, wage or social security systems, improved productivity or organisational efficiency cannot be punished and equated with 'social dumping'. we all agree that we must fight abuse in the transport sector, so we should fight the 'box companies' that employ eastern european drivers on unfair terms. however, commissioner, let us not agree with the actions of germany and france, which are compromising european principles and introducing rules which are incompatible with european union law, giving arguments to those who oppose the eu.
in writing. we have just discussed non-tariff barriers to food exporters in the internal market, which undermine the principles of the functioning of the single european market, and in particular the free movement of goods. the action taken by some countries in the area of minimum wages in the transport sector is unfortunately another worrying example of the weakening of the internal market, which is the biggest project and achievement of the european union so far. in this case, the freedom to provide services is at stake. the increase in the minimum wage for drivers working in the country concerned is not so much a cause for concern as the fact that it also affects transit and international transport. in addition, a number of additional administrative requirements are introduced, such as the obligation to keep documentation in the language of the country concerned, which obviously affect foreign carriers. the european common market is a great asset which cannot be sacrificed in the name of protectionism. at a time when the euro and schengen are in crisis and the union is trembling with fear for its integrity and future following the brexit decision, the collapse of the last bastion of a well-functioning internal market could have devastating consequences for us. i call on the commission to enforce the laws and rules of the single market vigorously.
mr. chairman, please! i must say, i'm very dismayed by your behaviour today. it's true. you've always worked very hard. you've always been a very solid judge and a very fair judge. but i don't understand your behavior today. this is an important debate. i am surprised that such a subject is written in the last item of our sitting, and you are shortening this debate by 18 minutes. it's completely inexplicable and completely incomprehensible. i'm terribly sorry about that.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. heating and cooling accounts for about 40% of the total primary energy, which is a major energy problem, and for about 50% of the total useful energy in the form of heat. while electricity generation can be standardised in the single energy market, heating and cooling require local solutions. however, the dependence of heating and cooling on the energy market is increasing, which may, for example, use cogeneration at local level for both electricity and heating or cooling. the diversity of the needs of the union's citizens for thermal comfort is demonstrated by the fact that the annual energy consumption per square metre of heated area varies in the member states from around 60 to even 300 kwh. the greatest potential for thermal energy efficiency lies in the thermal retrofitting of around two thirds of the so-called old material of residential, public and commercial buildings, as the simplest, fastest way to make the most efficient use of energy, reduce co2 emissions and create many jobs. this means that public funding for this priority objective should be increased and existing limits, for example in the regional development fund, removed, especially for whole settlements built, for example, with large plate technology. unfortunately, we have marginalized this issue in the past. it was a mistake. we've wasted a lot of time. the next step is to replace the outdated district heating with the so-called district heating from high-efficiency cogeneration plants. it is essential to phase out outdated small, non-ecological district heating and switch to high-efficiency cogeneration systems. this could be facilitated, for example, by temporarily phasing out the use of the ets in these heat and power generation systems. the difference between the west and the east of the union in the use of more efficient gas for heating purposes should also be taken into account. this is many times higher in the eu countries of western europe, while in central and eastern europe the heating sector is still mainly based on coal, which requires a gradual reduction in its inefficient burning. we need to improve that efficiency. the agglomeration of this region of europe is characterised by low emissions, i.e. emissions into the atmosphere of partially flared pyrolitic organic gases, including aromatic hydrocarbons and nitrogen and soot oxides, as well as fly ash. in the southern european member states, seasonal cooling is a growing problem due to climate warming, with around 5% of the total energy used for heating and cooling. the issues discussed today require the application of a number of complex future solutions, including: architectural and urban planning; the use of natural sources of heat and cooling. it requires the urgent development of innovative research and industry-wide development of new thermal insulation materials and sustainable green heating and cooling technologies, with a particular focus on solar panels and reverse heat pumps. in the future, the thermal comfort of the inhabitants of the european union will depend primarily on zero-emission thermal retrofitting and the use of renewable energy sources that are optimal for the entire climate zone. the priorities are well known, but they must also be financed and implemented as a matter of priority, although the hierarchy of priority varies from one member state to another, so as to ensure that the solutions we have found are optimized and that we can combat energy poverty.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr langen's report addresses the key issue of what the electricity market in the european union should look like in the long term. from the ecr group's perspective, there are many positive elements to the report, most notably the call for the commercialisation of renewable energy sources and, in the long term, the end of their subsidisation. this subsidization is becoming more and more disruptive, it is becoming more and more absurd, and i think that is the element that needs to be emphasized in this report. however, the pursuit of a common electricity market should not be used as a pretext for the union to assume responsibility for shaping national energy mix. the choice of energy sources must remain the responsibility of the eu countries. unfortunately, this aspect was not properly emphasised in the report by the rapporteur, although, as the rapporteur has mentioned, it was taken into account. another, even more important, problem with this report is the rapporteur's scepticism about so-called capacity markets. the capacity markets are crucial for securing the supply of electricity in individual member states. moreover, power markets provide the necessary support for renewable sources (renewable energy) which will have to be covered by traditional forms of energy production for a long time to come. the capacity markets are therefore essential to turn the tide, to guarantee stability to investors and to secure supply. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. as i said, i think that over the very long term the energy basket is currently a member state competence and member states should be able to decide for themselves how they will achieve the targets we set for ourselves in terms of renewable energy and other such issues. however, this should not be the subject of interference by the union authorities and the commission. it should be left to the member states, because they know best how to achieve the objectives we set ourselves.
the rapporteur. - i'm not going to tell you. when i listen to these speeches by my colleagues, i have to say that i'm afraid of confusing two things. namely, the electricity market is a market related to the fact that electricity, or electricity, can be transmitted over long distances, so it can be a single market. but in the case of heat, these heat transfer distances are much smaller, so we can talk about local markets. it may be a few, dozens or even tens of kilometres, although not too far, so we can talk about local markets and i would ask very much that these issues be taken into account here in these laws, so that these markets are not treated equally. but on the issue of heating and cooling, i have to admit that, in fact, when it comes to the paris issue of protecting our climate, which is cop 21, i think the biggest reserves (although it's probably unmeasurable because it's not in the ets) are in the thermal retrofitting of buildings, which is two-thirds. just step out onto the street in brussels, for example, and you can see how badly isolated that city is, let alone the many settlements and cities in central and eastern europe. these are the largest reserves that can be used the fastest. and i have to say one more thing, also in terms of renewable energy, the fastest way to get it in and use it is in the thermal upgrading of buildings, by heating buildings, but we need new solutions, further technical solutions. we talk at other meetings here about reindustrialization. and i have to say that there are renewable energies, like geothermal energy, like heat pump energy, and that's also something that we have to focus on, because that's the future in the context of the future industrialization, and we have to make that proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mrs mihaylova very warmly for drawing attention to european territorial cooperation in her report. european territorial cooperation is, in my view, the quintessence of what the european union is. the history of european territorial cooperation is the success of all those who demonstrate the value of working together across borders. it is the success of beneficiaries who have left behind thousands of projects and good practices. cross-border programmes are particularly important. they demonstrate the importance of impacting on the european union's border areas as well as on third countries. it is still in border areas that we need to build the right level of trust and partnership on each side of the border. we must also remember that crossborder areas are peripheral areas which we should particularly look after, care for and support. we also need to ensure that after 2020 european territorial cooperation has a sufficiently high budget to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of these instruments. we also need more flexibility in the implementation of european territorial cooperation and, above all, more trust at every level of the management and implementation of european territorial cooperation.
in writing. i would like to express my appreciation for the report on the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises are the driving force of the european union's economy. despite many difficulties, smes have survived the economic recession and the financial collapse, which is why it is so important that the commission and all member states create the conditions for the operation of these types of enterprises, because they are the future of our continent. i therefore call on all states to rise above the divisions, to remove the barriers faced by smes. it is necessary to reduce red tape, simplify legislation and facilitate access to credit. without the support of the important eu institutions, some smes may find themselves in a difficult situation, which is why i am in favour of developing standards that will make it easier for smes to operate in the public sphere.
in writing. – the report on the european added value of european territorial cooperation (etc) showed an imbalance between the budget and the upcoming challenges. however, positive outcomes from transnational cooperation cannot be denied. from adapting to climate change, supporting research and innovation, to the increase in cooperation between cities and regions on various issues, it is in this case important to emphasise these positive outcomes. at the same time, we must stress the importance of fully taking advantage of the interreg programmes, which for 2014-2020 are not playing a major role, to advocate cross-border projects and labour markets. the expansion of etc in, for instance, education, culture, energy and mobility is on the basis of the report, and the results of this report, recommended.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am here on behalf of my dear colleague neven mimica, and i would like to welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur, mr corrao. the eu trust fund for africa was created as a swift and flexible implementing tool to, inter alia, better manage migration and deliver quick results. the trust fund reduces the risk of aid fragmentation and provides a platform for political visibility and engagement with countries of origin, transit and destination. in the three regions concerned – the sahel and lake chad, the horn of africa and the north of africa – the root causes of instability, forced displacement and irregular migration are diverse, complex and often inter-related. they thus require a holistic and integrated approach. i have personally witnessed this in my visits to mali, somalia, ethiopia, kenya and lately in the last few months to niger and chad. i saw the situation on the ground and i strongly believe that the eu trust fund is definitely supporting programmes aimed at creating employment opportunities in local communities of origin and return, with a focus on vocational training and the creation of micro and small enterprises. it also supports actions aimed at strengthening access to basic services across a variety of resilience programmes. it particularly targets young people and women as well as other vulnerable groups. the eu trust fund for africa complements existing eu instruments, national and regional frameworks as well as bilateral programmes of eu member states. development cooperation addresses migration issues in two ways: firstly, by helping partner countries to improve migration governance, tapping into the development potential of migration; and secondly, by addressing political, economic and social instability, development cooperation addresses the causes of irregular migration and forced displacement, in order to help ensure that migration takes place in an orderly and safe manner. the trust fund supports programmes aiming at better migration management, including affording international protection, offering long-term solutions to displaced people and facilitating the safe, and also dignified and sustainable, return of migrants. this is in line with the united nations’ 2030 agenda for sustainable development and these are clearly development objectives. in the design and implementation of activities, the commission follows three key principles. firstly, the need for a strong human rights focus, especially in actions in support of law enforcement and border management; secondly, the need for continuous monitoring to ensure that european union support is used for its intended purpose and is delivering the expected results; and thirdly, the need to be transparent and inclusive with eu member states, african partners, and relevant international organisations and civil society.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. as co-rapporteur for the epp group, i would like to thank mr corrao for his cooperation on this draft resolution. the trust fund for africa is a new instrument that aims to address the destabilising causes of forced displacement and irregular immigration. however, it cannot replace effective border management and control and must be subject to the principles of transparency not only in terms of its implementation but also in terms of its financing. the horn of africa, sahel and lake chad basin and north africa regions covered by the fund are among the most fragile in the context of the current migration and refugee crisis and the fund will therefore only deliver results if faster and more flexible spending is linked to the long-term development objectives of peace and rule of law and good governance practices in the beneficiary countries. the political will of the partner countries is crucial, as the fund is also intended to strengthen their local capacity for engagement and responsibility. it is difficult to expect that this type of ad hoc support will have an immediate effect and therefore the fund should be seen as complementary to the 11th european development fund. the coherence of development policy and the principle of complementarity between all development aid instruments and actors must also be respected in this case. we need to put a strong emphasis on the need to increase member states' commitment and to meet not only commitments for contributions to the trust fund but also for oda more broadly, especially in the context of the reduction of member states' contributions to this year's union budget due to the €1.3 billion surplus from 2015.
this is the fundamental duty of every state towards its own citizens, and even more so of an association of states such as the european union towards the states it associates. i don't understand how you can say that because the criminal groups that organize the illegal smuggling of immigrants will develop their infrastructure, we should limit control over . . . (the president cut the speaker off because he said that this was not a question asked by raising the blue card)
mr. chairman, please! the fourth second of my question, you interrupted me before i could formulate it and ask mr lietz to justify his position. i would also ask that mr lietz be allowed to answer the question i have put.
madam president! we're talking about the obvious: only the development of africa, the development of the south, can stabilize these societies socially, can stem this wave of immigration that neither they nor we can handle. we are in a state of social destabilization. there's been a lot of talk about how we can't fund corrupt governments, and that's true, too. and what they have in common with all this is, for example, in paragraph 24, all these recommendations for the export of so-called sexual, reproductive, lgbti, minority rights. a lot of african leaders are saying openly that this is cultural imperialism. we're imposing our own problems on them instead of giving them our help. we really need to help them grow, not pass on our decadence.
member of the commission. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank, on behalf of my dear colleagues commissioners marianne thyssen and věra jourová, the two rapporteurs, ms ždanoka and ms blinkevičiūtė. the commission shares many of your analyses and conclusions. parenting – and caring more generally – is no longer only the role of women. to care is to be human, and anyone can become a carer. in fact, many men would like to spend more time with their families, but do not have the possibility or are somehow discouraged from doing so. but the commission believes that, if a woman wants to be more active on the labour market, making the most of her high level of educational attainment, she should have the possibility to do so, even when she has children or when relatives get older or ill. and the same is valid for a working man who wants to be more present at home to be with his young children or care for his relatives. this report comes at the right moment: it supports our ongoing initiative to improve work-life balance for working parents and caregivers. we welcome very much the work and effort of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the committee on employment and social affairs to draw attention to these important challenges and to suggest interesting options. the commission’s aim now is to present a more holistic approach to addressing the challenges of work-life balance. we have an existing eu legal framework in this field and policy instruments such as policy guidance, benchmarks and monitoring. but these are not enough. both the legal instruments and the policy measures need to be modernised and updated. first, to enable both women and men to realise their potential in the labour market. second, to support employers to have the skills they need. third, to combat discrimination, and fourth, to reduce the gender-based exposure to poverty and achieve gender equality. we are envisaging a comprehensive package with both legislative and non-legislative elements to support working families and businesses. the challenges for working parents start with the arrival of a new baby and continue into childhood and the teenage years. there needs to be a decent level of childcare and care services infrastructure in place to give people a meaningful choice. and we must not forget the challenges of caring for elderly or infirm dependants faced by today’s ‘sandwich generation’. we want to propose up-to-date solutions to meet real needs. we are now running the second consultation with social partners, seeking their views on possible avenues for eu legislative action. we also held a broad public consultation which ended in february this year. the views expressed by experts and key stakeholders point to the need for developing and implementing a range of non-legislative eu measures such as policy guidance, improved monitoring, better utilisation of eu funds and knowledge-sharing activities. subject to the social partners’ prerogative to negotiate, it is the commission’s intention to accompany this process. if the social partners decide not to enter into negotiation, the commission intends to explore all avenues leading to the establishment of an effective legislative and policy framework. you have seen this commitment in our work programme, and we are pleased to have your support in this endeavour. we will tackle these challenges together, for working men and women across europe.
in writing. the report adopted is very complex and covers many issues, but it shows that we need to take a holistic approach to work-life balance. that is why i voted for this report. the report focuses on parental leave and the equal sharing of parental responsibility. i think it's extremely important and should be promoted that mothers and fathers are free to exercise their custody rights in a way that is optimal not only for their careers and their private lives, but above all for the child's well-being. i am glad that the report also includes some innovative solutions that can be implemented in the workplace. i think we should take advantage of opportunities such as teleworking and parttime work and, where possible, make working hours more flexible. of course, this should be done by mutual agreement between the employer and the employee and should not be forced.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the subject matter of this report is of major importance both for the societies of the member states and for the union's economy. however, it is very complex and involves cultural issues, which requires the european union to exercise extreme caution in the choice of instruments and the formulation of legal acts. however, we must bear in mind that there are objective processes taking place today, which some experts call the second demographic transition. we're seeing a redefinition of the family model and a drastic decline in childbearing. the nuclear family is history. to continue to grow economically, the union needs to adapt to the new times and, above all, to halt the negative demographic trend. however, as the rapporteur rightly points out, there is no one-size-fits-all solution that works in all member states. however, decisive action is needed, including family-friendly policies. therefore, while i agree that the maternity directive needs to be revised, i believe that some sensitivity is necessary when preparing legislative proposals, given the cultural differences in paternity and carers' leave. the commission must certainly strictly observe the principle of subsidiarity, otherwise it may well be that the legislation in question will be blocked, either by governments in the council or by national parliaments.
in writing. the reconciliation of work and life is a growing challenge in our modern world. rising living costs mean that few families can afford to have a single parent stay home with the children. as a rule, both are forced to work or to look for work. this has a negative impact on the quality of life of families, but also often on childbearing, as families have difficulty deciding on their offspring, which threatens to cause a demographic collapse. that's why the employment guarantee is so important, especially for mothers who want to go back to work after the baby is born. welcomes, therefore, that the report adopted by the committee on employment and the committee on women's rights draws attention in several places to the need to maintain the right of return to work and to other facilities which are particularly important for young mothers, such as flexible working hours, provided that these are based on the needs of the worker and are adapted to his or her abilities; another important element of the report, which i agree with, is the need to ensure that families with children are not condemned to a deterioration of their financial situation. that is why support programmes are so important, such as the polish 500+ programme supporting parenthood, which is clearly received positively by families.
mr. chairman, please! the scandal that led to the creation of the panel has seriously damaged the level of trust both in the european automotive industry and in the national and eu regulatory authorities. this is not only a violation of the right of consumers to receive reliable information on the specifications of the products they buy, but also a violation of the future of a sector which is very important for the european economy and the labour market in many member states, including my own. unfortunately, despite numerous interviews and expert reports, it is still difficult to say definitively whether the falsification of the emission measurements was really a deliberate and conscious act or simply the result of imperfect methods of testing new car models. i hope that the final stage of the emis commission's work will provide a clear answer to the question of who is most responsible and who should be punished, but will not lead to a lasting recession in the european automotive industry.
mr president, first of all let me express my thanks to our rapporteur for the work he has done on the report. it is a good summary of our six months’ work in the emis committee of inquiry. nevertheless, our mandate has not been fulfilled yet. there is still much work to be done. there are a lot of doubts and there are also many unanswered questions. we are all in this house looking forward to the final conclusions and results. this cannot be done without close and loyal cooperation with the commission. during the meetings many of us blamed the commission for the failure to reform the emission control testing system and the type-approval procedure, but this is not the full picture. not only was the commission late with taking proper actions, but also parliament lost time to finalise its first report on the real driving emission legislation. member states did not take effective action to enforce the explicit ban on defeat devices. the final outcome was that customers lost trust in the car manufacturer and consumers suffered from increased air pollution. we expect the commission to make sure the volkswagen group compensates all customers affected by its illegal practices in the eu, and we expect member states to swiftly penalise all such practices. now we should focus on the legislative work and finalise the third and fourth real driving emissions packages. we have half a year to investigate all failures and submit the final report, which will serve to improve the cars emission framework. now it is time to make sure that such maladministration will never happen again. we, as the european parliament, are here to protect european citizens and consumers in the first place from being cheated.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to explain that all the advances in science and technology have come about through free competition, free research without government coordination, without doing what we're doing here. the european union's efforts to coordinate scientific research are clearly hampering scientific research, hampering progress, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the cohesion policy and research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation actions that some member states still need to take to meet the ex ante ris3 requirement. the erdf (european regional development fund) findings on the targeting of investments (in the 2014-2020 programming period) in the areas of research, technological development and innovation through a smart specialisation strategy are very relevant. i fully understand that ris3 is an ex ante condition for receiving support for the above investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion policy and the strategy for research and innovation for smart specialisation, ris3. ris3 strategies are a valuable tool to minimise the innovation gap and increase employment and growth in europe. the strategy still needs to be improved and public authorities should continuously monitor the strategies to maximise their results and ensure the most effective interregional cooperation possible. furthermore, simplification and coordination of existing programmes is essential for the proper implementation of these strategies in the coming years. in this context, a review of the post-2017 strategy should be mandatory in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the ris3 strategy, taking into account the experience gained in the first years of its implementation.
in writing. ‒ during its last term, the european regional development fund (erdf) decided, in the context of supporting the implementation of the first thematic objective, that in the 2014-2020 programming period, regions must target investments in the areas of research, technological development and innovation through a smart specialisation strategy. ris3 is therefore an ex ante condition for eu member states and regions to receive support through the european structural and investment funds (esif). all european regions have a ris3 strategy in place. these strategies were developed and started to be implemented in 2014 and 2015. the application of the ex ante conditionality has proved to be an important step forward, as most regions have already adopted the ris3 strategy. however, some of them must continue to work to meet the requirements of the ex ante ris3 condition. the report highlights the key role of ris3 in the contribution of cohesion policy to the europe 2020 strategy, the role of multi-level governance in the strategy-setting process, the role of the eu urban agenda in creating synergies and strong links to enable efficient use of resources, and the role of monitoring and evaluation. i have hereby endorsed that report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the ongoing crisis and related budgetary constraints, and with increasing global competition from countries such as the us, china and south korea, it is crucial for the eu to continuously increase its innovation capacity. europe 2020 is the eu's strategy for growth up to 2020. in a changing world, we want the eu to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. the union wants to achieve five ambitious targets by 2020 related to employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy. each member state has also set its own national targets in each of these areas. this strategy is backed up by concrete actions at national and union level. national and regional authorities across europe will develop smart specialisation strategies to use european structural and innovation funds more effectively and to increase synergies between different eu, national and regional policies, as well as public and private investment. those strategies should contribute to closing the innovation gap and increasing employment and growth in europe. it is now clear that there are a number of improvements that can be made in the development of the strategy. public authorities should endeavour to attach particular importance to monitoring and reviewing strategies in order to maximise their results.
in writing. ‒ ris3 strategies are a key driver of the economy, filling innovation gaps, enhancing investment efficiency and stimulating employment growth. public institutions that monitor interregional cooperation and promote regional specialisation can ensure stable growth and economic development across europe. in view of the experience gained in the early years of the project, it is important to listen to the local authorities of the various areas involved in the project in order to increase the possibilities for grassroots initiative and to highlight the importance of civil society. the strategy is an important element in shaping economic development and strengthening the regions, which is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the precondition for receiving financial support from the european structural funds to businesses, eu member states and regions was to target investments in research, technological development and innovation through a smart specialisation strategy. the strategy is an instrument for implementing development policy and its purpose is to support eu countries in developing their own economic development paths, stimulating the development of businesses and ensuring their continued growth. the eu's limited budget, as well as the global economic recession, have forced businesses to become more competitive by increasing their capacity to innovate. all european regions now have a smart specialisation strategy. these were developed and started to be implemented in 2014 and 2015. the report encourages the support of enterprises by stimulating their development, which in turn increases their competitiveness on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on european territorial cooperation (interreg) because it tackles very important issues such as: description of best practices, contribution to territorial cohesion, simplification and eu added value. interreg provides a framework for the implementation of joint actions and the exchange of policy experience between national, regional and local actors from different member states. i supported this report because i consider the implementation of cohesion policy to be very important and the interreg programme referred to in the report is part of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative actions. in order to achieve better results and make more efficient use of investments, european territorial cooperation (interreg) has been redesigned in the 2014-2020 programme. this was made possible by focusing on thematic areas and focusing on results. raising public awareness and exposure of european regional cooperation is very important at this time, as most people in eu border regions are not aware of the eu-funded cross-border cooperation in their regions. i therefore believe that both effective dissemination of results from completed projects and better coordination between the commission, the managing authorities and all stakeholders in the implementation of crossborder programmes are very important. this will allow for a critical analysis of projects in terms of their achievements in the specific thematic areas and will facilitate the further implementation of the programmes beyond 2020, while ensuring high quality and transparency of projects.
in writing. ‒ territorial cooperation within the european community is an important element of cohesion policy. it is developing a number of programmes to facilitate transport by building transnational transport networks, which is an important aspect in border areas where many people cross borders every day to get to work. it also facilitates the transport of goods, thereby reducing delivery costs, and contributes to the development of tourism. countries that cooperate in border areas are better able to address environmental challenges. many of the sites at risk are located in several member states, so cooperation to protect them is much more effective than action taken by individual countries. the same goes for the sea and water pollution control. territorial cooperation also results in increased innovation and research by research institutes and enterprises from different countries, and also provides opportunities for international cooperation between universities across borders. it is also important to make these areas more attractive to commercial enterprises. harnessing human, regional and cross-border potential provides opportunities for the development of border areas and also creates new jobs, preventing depopulation.
in writing. ‒ interreg european territorial cooperation is one of the two objectives of cohesion policy and provides a framework for joint action and policy exchange between national, regional and local actors from different member states. the report focuses on issues related to the description of best practices and the contribution to territorial cohesion. a number of paragraphs concern the period after 2020 and contain specific proposals in this regard. calls for an increase in the budget for european territorial cooperation in the next programming period and considers that cross-border cooperation can bring added value in managing the migration crisis. it also encourages the use of interreg programmes and calls for their implementation to meet the challenges of the refugee crisis. it considers that european territorial cooperation has proved its worth, but regrets that its full potential has not been realised. the report considers that crossborder cooperation is a key tool for the development of border regions, which are recognised as true laboratories of european integration, and stresses that, despite the existence of a separate regulation on european territorial cooperation, the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes should be further simplified. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the european territorial cooperation (interreg), established 25 years ago, remains a key tool for achieving territorial cohesion between more than 60 european border regions. over the last quarter of a century, progress has been made in many key sectors, such as transport, innovation, knowledge, culture and education. moreover, interregional cooperation has allowed cities and regions to cooperate in a wide range of thematic areas, including the exchange of experience and best practice, which has improved the effectiveness of many regional and local policies. despite these achievements, many obstacles to further convergence remain, such as divergent national legislation in the fields of employment, healthcare and social security. the report properly identifies the current problems of territorial cooperation and the objectives on which we should focus in the coming years. research and innovation, joint research projects, the creation of international cross-border universities, cross-border clusters and business networks, and the joint attraction of foreign investors are challenges that need to be given particular attention.
in writing. ‒ the resolution identifies effective decisions taken in the member states under territorial cooperation and focuses on the main plans for the future. the success of the programme is guaranteed by: territorial and communication cooperation; competitiveness and support for smes; research and innovation achievements; regional identity and territorial cohesion; and institutional capacity and social capital. european territorial cooperation is an important instrument for the positive development of european integration, which is why i decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the content of the mid-term report on emission measurements in the automotive sector. i am pleased that, as promised, the report is entirely technical and not political. it focuses on the need for cooperation between the eu bodies (conference of presidents, ep bureau, european commission) and the national authorities of each member state. i think we should support reports that focus on the important aspects of life, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the preliminary report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches or maladministration in the application of union law with regard to emission measurements in the automotive sector, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts. the scope of this inquiry is limited by the mandate of the commission and must focus on the compliance of the commission and the member states with the obligations imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007. in addition, the emis committee is responsible for collecting and analysing information to determine whether the commission and the member states have evidence of the use of devices to reduce the effectiveness of the operation and for collecting and analysing information on the implementation of directive 2007/46/ec by the member states. finally, the committee is also required to make any recommendations it deems necessary in this regard. because of the importance of the subject and its impact on the environment and therefore on the health and lives of eu citizens, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to parliament's decision of 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector, the committee is to present an interim report within 6 months of its establishment. the report shall be put to the vote on 13 september 2016. given that the emis hearings are still ongoing, the coordinators agreed that the report would not contain any political content. it is therefore purely technical and describes the timeframe and stresses the need for full cooperation between the conference of presidents, the ep bureau, the european commission and national authorities. i have hereby endorsed that report.
in writing. ‒ the work of the commission of inquiry, which aims to investigate allegations of breaches or maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector, is valuable from the point of view of the proper management of climate policy and the automotive industry. the fact that information missions are being organised, that a timetable has been set, that documentation is being collected on a continuous basis and that information is being made available to the public, convinces me of the importance of the matter being discussed by the committee, and i therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate allegations of maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. the report put to the vote is the mid-term outcome of the committee's work, in which it asks the conference of presidents and the bureau to support all measures to enable hearings and extraordinary meetings to be organised, reimbursement of the costs of experts and witnesses, missions and any other duly justified technical measures. it also asks the commission to guarantee its support for the work of the committee of inquiry. i voted in favour of the report in order to ensure that the work of the committee of inquiry proceeds smoothly.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion to waive the immunity of mr istván ujhelyi. the mep was accused in a hungarian court of defaming mr sneider by claiming that he was the head of a mafia-like organisation. mr ujhelyi believes that he should be protected by immunity, even though he committed the defamation when he was not yet an mep. it is clear that this had nothing to do with the exercise of the duties of a member of the european parliament. the rapporteur recommends lifting the immunity, and i think exactly the same.
in writing. ‒ i support the request to waive mr zarianopoulos' immunity, even though the act he committed was committed before he became an mep. the offence in question concerns the allegedly illegal granting of permits to use public property for the purpose of organising seating (this happened in 2011 when mr zarianopoulos was a member of the thessaloniki city council). mr zarianopoulos himself has decided not to exercise his immunity and the privileges it confers, whereas i believe that such conduct should be tantamount to the withdrawal of immunity, hence my decision to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the agreements with the republic of china on croatia's accession to the european union, which directly affected the enlargement of the customs union. i welcomed the fact that the eu had entered into negotiations with wto members to agree on price equalization, including a reduction in the current eu tariffs on footwear and window and wall air conditioners, and an increase in import quotas for garlic and mushrooms. i believe that if we want the customs union to work properly, we must vote in favour of it, and i have done so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions schedules of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the accession of the republic of croatia resulted in the enlargement of the customs union by the european union, which in turn obliged the european union to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in respect of the croatian concessional list in order to agree on the compensation to be paid if the adoption of the eu external tariff system results in an increase in rates above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. in my view, the european parliament should give its consent to this agreement, as it restores to the people's republic of china trade rights that were restricted as a result of the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has expanded the customs union. therefore, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights in respect of the concession list of croatia in order to agree on a settlement. such compensation shall be due where the adoption of the eu external tariff system results in an increase in rates above the level to which the acceding country concerned has committed itself under the wto. these adjustments concern in particular the reduction of the current eu customs duties on footwear and window or wall air conditioners, and the increase of import quotas for garlic and mushrooms. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, the people's republic of china was to be compensated, on the basis of wto rules, for the withdrawal of concessions and the increase in rates resulting from the eu external customs tariff. facilitating trade by removing barriers is an important objective of international trade policy, which is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement between croatia and uruguay on the alignment of tariff quotas for beef. this is an important agreement, given that the customs union was automatically extended when croatia joined the eu. the opening of negotiations between croatia and uruguay is an important step towards establishing an external eu customs tariff so that these rates are not high. these are the shenanigans i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions schedules of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu has expanded the customs union and, since the eu's external tariff system results in an increase in rates in accordance with wto rules, the eu was obliged to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the croatian concession list. the negotiations with uruguay culminated in the draft agreement, which was initialled on 18 december 2015 in nairobi. in my view, the european parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay relating to the modification of the concession lists of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu has expanded the customs union. it was therefore obliged to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the croatian concession list. the aim of these negotiations was to agree a countervailing duty, as the eu's external tariff system causes rates to rise. negotiations with uruguay led to the draft agreement in 2015 which agreed on alignments for the tariff quotas for beef. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, the eastern republic of uruguay was to be compensated, on the basis of wto rules, for the withdrawal of concessions and the increase in rates due to the eu external customs tariff. facilitating trade by removing barriers is an important objective of international trade policy, which is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the candidacy of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou, appointed by the government of cyprus, as a candidate for the court of auditors. mr lazarou has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2 november 2010, i have no objection to his previous work, i value his experience in this sector both in the eu and in the national area (he was chief accountant of the republic of cyprus, head of the eu funds certification authority, head of the public procurement authority and member of the internal audit board of the republic of cyprus (january 2000 to october 2010).
in writing. ‒ i support the candidacy of joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. in my opinion, he fulfils the necessary conditions to perform such a function; he has both competence (legal education) and experience (he has been a judge in the portuguese supreme court of auditors since 2008, and has also been an auditor throughout his professional life). during the cont hearing on 5 september, mr figueiredo presented his qualifications in a convincing manner. no negative comments were received.
in writing. ‒ i support the candidacy of mr leo brincat, who has been nominated by the government of malta as a candidate for the court of auditors. mr brincat is qualified to hold this position (he graduated from the london institute of banking and subsequently joined the institute) and has a very extensive professional experience, having served as minister for ecological development, environment and climate change (march 2013 to april 2016), minister for finance and trade (march 1997 to september 1998), minister for trade (october 1996 to march 1997), chairman of the national audit office (march 1999 to february 2003), chairman of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives (from 1998 to 2003).
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the regulation is to align regulation (ec) no 421/2009 on external trade statistics with the tfeu in terms of conferring on the commission the delegated and implementing powers to adopt certain measures. following the first reading vote in plenary on 12 march 2014, the ep and the council negotiated with the intention of reaching an agreement at an early stage of the second reading on the basis of the council's position at first reading, which the ep can approve as reflecting a compromise reached between the co-legislators and covering a combination of delegated acts, implementing acts, as well as transposing certain matters into a basic legislative act. one issue remains unresolved: the consultation of experts from the member states during the preparation of delegated acts, which the council insisted on. it was then decided to suspend the negotiations pending the outcome of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. following the adoption of that interinstitutional agreement, the draft regulation was amended accordingly. the cor supports the balanced outcome of the negotiations following the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and, consequently, the recommendation that the second reading be held without amendments. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, as regards the conferral on the commission of delegated and implementing powers to adopt certain measures. following the changes following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt its rules for taking decisions in trade policy to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. most of the legislation in this area has been adapted by means of a consolidated act and by means of several individual adaptations. the commission has undertaken to present by the end of the seventh term of office a second set of adjustments to the committee procedure for legislative acts involving a regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the commission therefore proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i think the council's position on this point is to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the regulation that states that member states are obliged to collect and submit statistical data on natural gas and electricity prices for industrial and household customers. these data would cover electricity prices, network access charges, taxes and fees and their sub-components and would be reported every six months. the proposed regulation aims to replace directive 2008/92/ec, which imposes such an obligation on industrial customers. the collection and submission of data is intended to monitor the internal energy market and the effects of various energy policies, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources. i voted to accept the document.
in writing. ‒ under this regulation, member states will be required to collect and submit statistical data on natural gas and electricity prices for industrial and household customers. price data would be reported every six months for different consumption volumes and would cover electricity prices, network access charges, taxes and fees and their sub-components. gas and electricity price statistics are required to monitor the internal energy market and the effects of various energy policies, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources. in the context of the european union strategy, the commission has committed to reporting on energy costs and prices every two years, starting in 2016. the commission's preliminary proposal was presented after extensive consultations and in agreement with the member states and the national regulatory authorities and no significant differences in the issues were identified between the positions of the parliament and the council. the agreement reached in the june 2016 trilateral talks now requires approval by the plenary assembly. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ collecting data on energy and gas prices is important for gaining knowledge about the market. the aim of the regulation is to make data collection compulsory rather than voluntary, in order to avoid the data collection problems that some member states have experienced. it is in the interest of the union to ensure high quality data in order to avoid misunderstandings arising from different methodologies and statistical surveys. i considered the proposed amendments appropriate and amended the draft resolution accordingly.
in writing. ‒ for the promotion of transparency within gas and electricity prices, i will be voting in favour of the first-reading agreement regarding this issue. comprehensible and comparable are the two main words in this context. the member states have to guarantee to provide comprehensible and comparable high-quality data, which needs a proper system for data collection and the compilation of those statistics, to truly represent the prices of natural gas and electricity, in order to truly serve the citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a regulation to collect statistics on gas and electricity prices. up-to-date, reliable and harmonised data are essential for the efficient monitoring of the energy market of the member states and for shaping energy policy. until now, this costing function has only been available to industrial customers in the eu, but now it is to be made generally available so that every eu citizen has access to reliable and comparable gas and energy prices. the regulation does not harmonise the structure of gas and energy prices in the eu, but only collects data for statistical purposes and to ensure price transparency.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the policy objectives set out in the consultative communication on the structure of the electricity market, which is part of the report on the european internal market published by the european commission on 15 july 2015. i am not in favour of creating a union-wide electricity market with clear price signals for new investment. i do not think it is appropriate to consolidate the european approach to energy security and to strengthen regional cooperation on energy policy, in particular in investments in new power generation facilities, interconnectors and support systems and in the integration of renewable energy into the european internal market. the fact is that i find positive elements in the report, but the negatives are predominant, hence my decision to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the structure of the energy market is not an attractive project from the point of view of the polish market and polish resources. reducing the production and consumption of fossil fuels in order to increase the role of renewable energy is possible for countries that have reached a high level of economic development. the creation of a european electricity market to guarantee european security based on new installations and integration around renewable energy sources is not the best solution from the point of view of poland's energy interests, which is why i am opposed to this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu's heating and cooling strategy, which is the first step in analysing the problems and challenges in the sector and addressing them through eu energy policy. to achieve the eu's climate and energy goals, the sector covered by the strategy must undergo a radical change to reduce energy consumption and reduce the use of fossil fuels. studies show that 84% of the energy used for heating and cooling is still from fossil fuels, and only 16% from renewable sources. i think it's important to make changes in this sector. the main objectives of the strategy are to link electricity systems to heating and cooling systems and to recover energy from industrial waste.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy. the heating and cooling problem is of varying concern in the member states. the hierarchy of importance of the different activities in these countries therefore varies. the biggest efficiency reserves for the new eu countries that joined the eu after 2004, including poland, lie in the thermal retrofitting of buildings as the simplest way to use energy efficiently and to reduce co2 emissions significantly. the financing of thermal modernisation works for whole settlements, especially those built using large plate technology, needs to be increased significantly. at least 25% of the total appropriations from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be allocated to this purpose. it is also necessary to replace outdated district heating plants with high-efficiency cogeneration plants. a different problem, which is currently increasing in the european mediterranean countries, is cooling, which is associated with the process of gradual warming of the climate. architectural solutions such as thermal insulation and reverse heat pumps can play a major role in solving both problems, and intensive research is needed on new innovative solutions in this area. in my view, the adoption of an eu strategy on heating and cooling is essential.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission presented the eu's strategy for heating and cooling. this is the first step in analysing the problems and challenges in this sector and addressing them through eu energy policy. in the context of the heating and cooling strategy, the commission organised an ad hoc consultation forum on 9 september 2015. in total, 84% of the energy used for heating and cooling is still from fossil fuels, and only 16% from renewable sources. to meet the eu's climate and energy targets, the heating and cooling sector needs to radically reduce energy consumption and reduce the use of fossil fuels. the main focus is on decarbonising heating and cooling, renovating existing buildings, connecting electricity to heating and cooling, increasing the share of renewable energy in heating and cooling, and recovering energy from industrial waste. it is also important to involve consumers and industry in this process. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling involves converting about 40% of total primary energy into about 50% of total useful energy in the form of heat. while electricity generation can be standardised in the single energy market, heating and cooling require local solutions. however, the dependence of heating and cooling on the energy market is increasing, e.g. local cogeneration for both electricity and heat (cooling). the diversity of the needs of the union's citizens for thermal comfort is demonstrated by the fact that the annual energy consumption per square metre of heated area varies between 60 and even 300 kwh in the member states. the ep report focused on a number of important issues, including the drive to phase out outdated, small, non-ecological district heating and the transition to high-efficiency cogeneration systems. the need to take account of the differences between the west and the east of the eu in the use of more efficient gas for heating purposes has been rightly emphasised. in the coming years, member states and the eu should focus strongly on architectural and urban cooling and heating activities, on the use of natural sources of heat and cooling, and on intensifying the development of innovative research and the creation of an entire industry of new thermal insulation materials.
in writing. ‒ the work of the committee on the heating and cooling strategy is relevant from the perspective of the energy and climate union and the security of energy supply. the use of modern heating and cooling technologies, the use of biogas, biomass in energy production, the implementation of high-quality insulation in buildings and the modernisation of older buildings, investments in small, high-efficiency heaters these activities increase energy management efficiency. i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because it highlights a number of key aspects. both the role that smes should have in the eu economy and their role in the implementation of cohesion policy. another aspect is the need to reduce red tape and diversify funding sources, as well as to engage early in discussions on investment priorities in future funding rounds, and to exchange best practices between member states. i would just like to point out that i do not think that support for smes should be linked to the integration of refugees and migrants.
in writing. ‒ as the programming phase of the european structural and investment funds is coming to an end, the regi own-initiative report focuses on the first lessons to be drawn from the involvement of smes, and more specifically on the implementation of the third of the eleven thematic objectives of the common provisions regulation (article 9) to strengthen the competitiveness of smes. the report contains many positive elements, including an emphasis on the key role of smes in the eu economy and in the successful implementation of cohesion policy, reducing red tape and encouraging the use of financial instruments, simplifying access to loans, diversifying funding sources, the importance of technical assistance and early involvement in discussions on investment priorities in future funding rounds, and the exchange of best practices between member states. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ smes are crucial to the economies of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. it is therefore to be welcomed that eur 70 billion has been allocated to support enterprises, mainly smes, in the 2007-2013 cohesion policy period, and that the aim is to double this amount between 2014 and 2020, to which an increased use of the various financial instruments is to contribute. in the european parliament, we often stress that smes are the backbone of the eu economy and have a huge employment potential, accounting for 85% of new jobs. it is also estimated that over 20 million smes provide over 67% of private sector employment in the eu, with micro-enterprises accounting for 30%. smes are thus the main drivers of long-term european growth and sustainable job creation in the member states. increasing resource efficiency for smes offers great opportunities for reducing production costs and increasing productivity. it is estimated that better use of resources represents an overall savings potential of eur 630 billion for european industry. preventing environmental damage and moving to a low-carbon economy are societal challenges that create new opportunities for companies to market green products and services. smes need a conducive environment in which green solutions can be easily developed, financed and marketed.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises account for around 99% of all eu enterprises, providing 67% of total employment in the unfunded business sector. the eu regulation establishing common rules for the european structural and investment funds lists 11 thematic objectives setting out the rules for funding. thematic objective 3 on strengthening the competitiveness of smes has one of the highest pools of resources. the eu's sme support is expected to reach almost eur 64 billion between 2014 and 2020. the additional use of financial instruments to stimulate bank lending is aimed at doubling this amount. the expected results are 300,000 new jobs and support for almost one million smes. specific measures include support for entrepreneurship and business creation, investment in research and innovation, development of new business models, products and services, knowledge transfer and business cooperation, upskilling of workers, promotion of self-employment, or the creation of social enterprises. this is why it is so important to assess early on the achievement of this key objective of improving the competitiveness of smes, both in terms of the achievements to date and the lessons to be learned for the future.
in writing. ‒ i am optimistic about the draft resolution on promoting the competitiveness of smes, given the impact of their activities on economic growth, job creation and innovation. local authorities can support the most effective actors through careful selection, partnership and good management. increasing the efficiency of the sme sector can contribute to a more economical use of resources, lower production costs, increased productivity and thus generate savings for subsequent innovation. i have decided to vote in favour of the above initiative.
in writing. ‒ smes account for 85% of employment in the eu labour market and have the potential to create new jobs. the report highlights their dominant role in the structure of the european economy and also examines the lessons to be drawn from the implementation of the third objective, namely the strengthening of the competitiveness of smes, in the programming of the european structural and investment funds. the report highlights obstacles that prevent and hinder smes from having a broad access to funds, such as the large number and fragmentation of aid schemes, the high degree of complexity of rules and procedures, the delays in implementing implementing acts and the risk of overly rigorous implementation. i voted in favour of the report, which points out that excessive regulation and administrative burdens undermine innovation potential and hinder the development of smes, and recognises the need to promote market competitiveness by encouraging the use of financial instruments, simplified access to credit and diversification of sources of finance.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu strategy for the alpine region, which covers 7 countries, 5 of which are eu member states (austria, france, germany, italy and slovenia) and 2 non-eu countries (liechtenstein and switzerland), as well as 48 regions with a population of over 80 million citizens. i believe that the strategy covers three important thematic areas. i appreciate that the strategy does not require the use of additional resources, but emphasises the use of funds already in existence (implementation of the esi funds). at the same time, i believe that this document and the experience gained from its development can help in the work on the eu strategy for the carpathian region, which should also be developed and implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. the eusalp strategy is being implemented in a region where different forms of cooperation are already underway, e.g. within the framework of the alpine area and the alpine convention, as well as the various interreg cross-border programmes. eusalp is made up of 48 regions in seven european countries: italy, france, slovenia, austria, germany, switzerland and liechtenstein. the region has a population of about 80 million and is highly attractive for its natural, economic and cultural values. the alpine lowlands and the alpine mountain area are part of an inseparable natural and human system whose interdependence has influenced the entire history of the region. however, difficulties in connections and production logistics have often had a negative impact on the development of mountain areas. in addition, the alpine macro-region is also highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change today. this is why i believe that the public authorities should, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, respond to the economic and ecological challenges of the alpine macro-region.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for the alpine region covers 7 countries, 5 of which are eu member states (austria, france, germany, italy and slovenia) and 2 non-eu countries (liechtenstein and switzerland), as well as 48 regions with a population of over 80 million citizens. the strategy covers three thematic areas: growth policy, mobility and connectivity, and environmental and energy protection. eusalp provides a framework for policy coordination and territorial cooperation; it aims to ensure mutually beneficial links between mountain regions and the surrounding lowland and urban areas. the report focuses on the potential of the esi funds and other eu funding options for strategic planning in both urban and alpine areas. this strategy does not require the use of additional resources. the existing funds shall be used to implement it and to ensure appropriate coordination. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is to promote stability in the regions and to help better manage migration. the union's external action should be directed towards the implementation of the union's external action programmes, in particular the european neighbourhood policy, the european neighbourhood policy and the european neighbourhood policy. then take action to promote equal opportunities in the fields of economy, security and development. the countries covered by the fund are located in three regions of africa (the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad basin, and north africa). they are some of the most unstable countries on the continent. i shall abstain on that point. the resolution in particular draws attention to the low contribution of the member states, stressing that words and promises alone are not enough this must be translated into action. it stresses the eutf's purpose and calls for a more comprehensive eu solution for emergency funds in the context of this year's review of the 2014-2020 mff. it also warns against a scenario where it is the poorest countries with the least access to other sources of funding that lose out.
in writing. ‒ given the migration crisis, aid to african countries is important and can help to curb illegal migration to the eu. the important aspect is to promote stability and economic development in these countries, because it is the lack of opportunities for decent wages and a sense of security that has forced many people to emigrate. the main condition for ensuring economic development is peace and stability. to this end, african countries should be supported in state-building, the promotion of the rule of law and conflict prevention. the development of employment in local sectors and the guarantee of finding work, as well as the prevention of exploitation of human resources by foreign companies, are also of great importance. in a world of ever-increasing population, young people need to be provided with the right conditions. they should have access to education and employment prospects, leading to sustained economic growth. in addition, efforts must be made to ensure basic public services such as access to medicine, safe food and water. nor should we forget the basic rights of migrants. eu action should focus on humanitarian aid and on combating illegal migration routes and trafficking in human beings. the measures to encourage return and reintegration in the countries of origin should also be promoted.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) signed by the president of the commission together with the 25 eu member states (plus norway and switzerland) and launched at the valletta summit on migration in november 2015 by european and african partners is to help support regional stability and contribute to better migration management. the eu trust fund aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting flexibility, economic opportunity, equality of opportunity, security and development. the eu trust fund for africa was established to provide assistance to 23 countries in three regions of africa (the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad basin, north africa), covering some of the most fragile african countries, which as countries of origin are vulnerable to migration, transit or destination, or all three, and which can benefit most from this form of eu financial assistance. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the idea of an eu trust fund for africa was first raised at the valletta european leaders' summit on migration in november 2015. in view of the unprecedented levels of illegal migration, the fund was established to support the african countries most affected by the crisis, to strengthen stability in the region and to promote closer eu-africa cooperation on migration management issues. the report addresses many questions and concerns raised in the context of the establishment of the fund in the areas of financing, implementation and control. the document also called for greater transparency, accountability and policy coherence in the design and implementation of projects, while fully respecting the principles of development effectiveness. the fund must contribute primarily to the long-term objectives of ensuring peace and strengthening governments in countries of origin of illegal immigrants.
in writing. ‒ the african trust fund (eutf) is a vital tool for the development of areas affected by poverty, social and economic destabilisation, migration and lack of access to finance. however, the results of the work so far show that the financing of these actions has not produced the intended effects. the current immigration crisis has contributed to the security of eu citizens. it is our duty to provide humanitarian aid, but we must do so in a responsible and thoughtful manner. in my opinion, the draft resolution does not meet this condition, which is why i opposed its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa (eutf), which was launched in november 2015 in valletta, aims to support stability in african regions and contribute to better migration management. the fund is intended to support the elimination of the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration in 23 countries in three regions of africa: the horn of africa, the sahel and the lake chad basin, north africa. i abstained from the vote because, while the report promotes a proper approach to migration, it also promotes access to reproductive rights, including abortion.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report, even though i know how important it is to maintain a balance between my personal and professional life. however, most of the calls for action in the report violate the principle of subsidiarity. the maternity leave directive of 2008 has been a failure, and i don't think this is any different. i believe that finding this balance should be the responsibility of each family, not regulated by legislation, as the report seems to suggest.
in writing. ‒ the european union is an ageing society. the decline in the birth rate over the past decades is clear, and it is therefore essential to improve labour market conditions. action should focus on improving access to the labour market for women: creating conditions for women to return to work in the same position after the birth of a child and preventing discrimination on grounds of sex when applying for jobs. in addition, we should facilitate access to parental leave among fathers. the pay gap in the same jobs is still a major problem, which means that mothers are the ones who take leave to look after their children. we must not forget the single mothers who often work overtime to provide a decent living for their children. the conditions must be created in which they can combine work and child-rearing. to this end, we must strive to improve care services and increase their availability. balancing work and private life will not only contribute to an increase in births, but also to economic growth, greater gender equality and a reduction in the risk of poverty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on creating a work-life balance in the labour market. in the context of this report, i would like to highlight the need to ensure access to quality childcare and early education for all. we need more investment in creating and expanding child care infrastructure. every child should be guaranteed a place in a care facility after the parents have completed their parental leave. following the resolution, i call on member states to implement the 2002 barcelona targets for childcare infrastructure and to endorse the 2014 quality framework for early childhood education and care. providing adequate childcare, as part of a work-life balance strategy, is also key to increasing women's employment.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that for many families, reconciling private life with work is a huge challenge. it is therefore necessary to take initiatives to increase the flexibility of work, to promote part-time work and different forms of remote work. in addition, improving the availability of places in daycare centres, kindergartens and full-time childcare facilities is a key aspect of work-life balance. however, action in this area should be taken at national level by the governments of the individual member states, not at union level. the issue of maternity, paternity, parental or carer's leave is a matter for the member states alone. the european union's intervention in these areas violates the fundamental principle of subsidiarity, which requires that only those actions are taken at european level which cannot be implemented effectively and efficiently at national level. unfortunately, many of the proposals in this report fall short of this principle, which is why i have decided not to support it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ the report is a response to the european parliament's roadmap on the challenges faced by working families in balancing family and work life, published in august 2015. it addresses issues relevant to the family: the demographic crisis, the risk of poverty (including among children), the importance of work-life balance, the condemnation of the culture of employee availability, family care for the disabled and the exchange of good practices in family policy. however, it should be noted that work-life balance is about allowing families and other working people to find their own ways of dividing time between work and family or time for themselves, rather than bringing more women into the workforce and leaving more men at home, as the report seems to suggest. moreover, most of the calls for action in the report violate the principle of subsidiarity by interfering with the competences of the member states. that is why, despite the many positive comments in the report, i abstained.
mr. chairman, please! we're supposed to be debating our country, and the president announces that we won't even be able to speak. there are no voting procedures in the room, no questions to those who will speak. is this even a debate? this debate is supposed to be held in the name of democracy, and there's really no real discussion beyond the statements of the clubs that we can predict.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today it is very important that the poles know and understand what this debate is about and what the european parliament's resolution tomorrow is about. i doubt they'll learn the truth from the polish public media. this is not a debate about poland, it is not even a debate against poland, it is a debate about the abuses of power that are taking place today, which are serious threats to democracy, to the rule of law and ultimately turn against their own people. (the president cut off the speaker) then from the beginning, mr president! today, the most important thing is that the poles know what this debate is about and what the european parliament's resolution will be about tomorrow. i expressed doubt that they would learn the truth from the polish public media. well, this is not a debate about poland or even against poland, it is a debate about the abuses of power that are now taking place, which pose serious threats to democracy and civil liberties and thus turn against their own people. poland, understood as the collective work of poles of the last quarter century, is a source of pride. we've come a long way from long-held prejudices to a strong position in the european union, a strong, vibrant economy and universal respect. we have also had a moment here, when jerzy buzek was elected the first president of the european parliament from behind the iron curtain, and when the 28 governments are represented here by donald tusk, the president of the european council, a man from gdansk, the birthplace of solidarity. however, it is no cause for pride if poland opens the list of countries monitoring threats to democracy and the rule of law. it is no cause for pride if poland is added to the list of european troubles and is the addressee of a resolution such as the one in april this year when the european parliament expressed its concern about the developments in honduras, nigeria, pakistan and poland. what is wrong cannot be covered up by the mandate obtained in the elections, because the poles did not vote for the paralysis of the constitutional court, which is the guarantor of the observance of the law, they did not vote for the purge in the public media. i would also add that any selective publication of the constitutional court's judgments does not improve this case, and the prosecutor's attempt to prosecute the head, the president of the court, is completely out of line with the norms of our world. the poles did not vote in the parliamentary elections for a purge of the public media, a huge, 190 journalists turned into a tube of government propaganda. the poles did not vote for the destruction of the civil service and the colonization of all public space according to the principle of "moderate but faithful". the poles certainly did not vote for the unauthorized invasion of privacy and the kind of changes in the law that can lead to the abuse of the coercive apparatus, and that in the hands of ministers who have committed such abuses in the past. all of this is perfectly visible to the democratic world. you can't hide that or fake it. today's debate, tomorrow's resolution are the testimonies of concern on the part of the true friends of poland. the concern is proportional to the hope that poland has given as an anchor of europeanism in the east. the democratic world was thinking about poland when things were bad in the polish state. today, he remembers poland as a member of his family. it is being done in the name of the principles and values enshrined in the polish constitution and treaties, but what is important is that these principles did not come from nowhere. they're not from dogma. they are the result of a long process of trial and error, in which a free society has found the institutional principles that ensure freedom and enable the organization of an economy that is sustainable and promises to improve the quality of life. anyone who violates these rules is also violating the security and future of their own country. i speak today on behalf of the largest group of the christian democrats, but i am also the voice of millions of poles who feel comfortable in a europe without borders. they are at home, they know and remember the curse of geopolitics, that is, poland's centuries-long isolation, and therefore they highly value the value of community for our security and our development opportunities. they can distinguish between patriotism, which builds, and nationalism, which ruins and has been the cause of many of the disasters on our continent. they don't want the price for the sins of the ruling class to fall on the whole of poland, that the achievements of the generation that built the polish brand be wasted. you can't buy the consent of the poles to make poland a problem for itself and for europe by simply giving away money. john paul ii, our pope, told his countrymen in rome in 2003 that europe needs poland, poland needs europe. i would add, a wise and strong poland in a united europe. then and only then will it be the last critical debate and critical resolution on polish affairs in the european parliament. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i now turn to the authors of the resolution. the european union is going through the biggest crisis in its history some say it's deadly we have brexit, we have the possibility of other brexits, immigration, the euro, less and less democratic decision-making and you are organising a debate about poland. and for what reason? i think it's because your political comrades have lost their monopoly power in poland and you find it hard to accept it. when they ruled poland and did all sorts of terrible things, you didn't mind, you were even delighted. you guys were so complimentary about it, it just changed. but to return to the resolution, the authors write about some laws and some problems, but i regret to say that they do not have any special knowledge about this. but they have a gigantic prejudice. how, for example, am i to deal with the allegation that the minister of the environment has fundamentally changed the composition of a body that is essentially an advisory body? why are you guys writing about this stuff? so, what, the minister can't change his advisory board? is he asking your permission? this is absurd. how am i supposed to deal with the fact that the authors don't like fighting the printer bug that's destroying the białowieża forest? after all, most of you have no idea where the białowieża forest is, what the forest is. you don't know anything about that. you don't know what a printer's crust is. where does this sudden, strong view of the fight against the printing glitch come from? folks, this is not a majority vote, this is a peer review, which is fraught with the risk of error. don't pretend you know anything about this, because you don't. or how do i deal with comments about the amendment of the code of criminal procedure, where it is stated, for example, that the principle of presumption of innocence is violated. that's bullshit. there's nothing like that. you don't point out where that statement falls because you can't point to something that isn't there. it takes a lot of bad will to write such an absurd document. or media media is of course a matter of an endless problem that we have been dealing with in poland for twenty years actually. but with a heavy heart, if we compare the media offer that we have now in poland, this media offer in terms of worldview and politics has never been wider in the recent history of poland. no voices were ever heard again. certainly these voices were not heard when our predecessors ruled for eight years and when they chased away all the disobedient journalists. i will say more. i think that the media offer that is in poland today is much wider than what we find in many countries of the european union, including germany, belgium or france. why does that bother you? well, i have an answer to why you're bothered and where all this nonsense in this resolution comes from. because you have a deep prejudice against the polish government and everything it represents. the truth is that you are organically incapable of accepting the fact that there may be governments and parties that differ from you in their views and that those views are well-founded. pluralism in the european union is the same pluralism as in the case of the ford model t, where all the colors could be, provided it was black. in the european union, all views are good, as long as they are in line with the orthodoxy of the european union. if one is different from that, then one can say anything about it and write anything, if one agrees with it, one can do anything and find absolution here. and two more words, mr president, if i may, about the commission and the european commission, which is breaking the rules of the treaties. the rule of law procedure which has been initiated against us is in fact a rule of law procedure because it is a breach of the treaties. we asked, my colleagues asked the european commission, on the basis of what research and what legal analysis was the case against the polish government initiated. and the commission sent us a text which - i apologize for the words - was a complete nonsense, it contained nothing. i'm sorry, but i'm serving this text, i'm serving this text, please. i'm not making this up. i pointed out to mr timmermans, the president, during the last debate here that you are using a blatantly false reconstruction of the facts concerning what happened to the constitutional tribunal in poland, but mr timmermans, as is his custom, does not reply in substance, but uses a wonderful rhetoric which i admire and i am full of appreciation for. you don't answer arguments with arguments. recently, analyses were published, commissioned by the polish parliament, by a group of 15 law professors, on the constitutional tribunal and the whole crisis, which is a serious crisis - i do not deny it. but unlike you, the states here, i don't see an easy solution to this crisis. but this requires good will on all sides, and there is no good will. this expertise has been sent to the council of europe, it has been sent to the european commission, and this is the case for the last few hours. i would be very happy if, on behalf of the european commission, mr timmermans could respond to all these arguments - but really to the arguments - because if you want to show off your ciceroan sword, i know you can. but i would like you to say, on behalf of the commission, that these arguments are wrong, that they are well reasoned, that it is quite different. i'm looking forward to that answer. and finally, i would like to say something about the commission. i'm sorry to say this, because it's not something that comes easily to your mouth, but it has to be said. in the case of poland, the european commission is usurping three functions: prosecutor, judge and executor - in other words, it is doing something that is actually contrary to the legal and political tradition of europe. this concentration of three functions in one hand is characteristic of european enlightened despotism, and it is - i would say - this despotism of the state that is less and less european, less and less enlightened. but whatever you say about poland, the standards that are in place in poland today are much better, much more transparent, giving people much more pluralism, not only compared to what we heard here today - you just have to put in some effort to get to know them, you really have to be interested - but also than in many many other european countries, including the standards that the european union has been trying to impose recently.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. once again, the european parliament is coming together to interfere with a legally elected government and a sovereign, stable european state. but you, ladies and gentlemen, do not have the courage to respond to the real challenges facing europe: when the police are helpless against squadrons of islamic terrorists, when other eu countries are fighting the specter of bankruptcy, when european states are collapsing under the flood of millions of illegal refugees this chamber is going to discuss the constitutional court, the respect for the charter of fundamental rights, which poland has not signed. well, i answer all these questions: hands off poland! this whole debate is a brutal attack on my country. anyone in this chamber with a shred of decency would be ashamed to speak up to teach my country and my people. we, the poles, do not need the advice of this chamber, we, the poles, do not need your comments and speeches, because we, the poles, can govern ourselves. you can learn from our polish history, how to fight for freedom and sovereignty, honor and solidarity. our polish-lithuanian union lasted over 400 years, yours won't last 70! it is not poland that is the problem for the development of europe, but the wrong and harmful policies of the current european elites, led by mrs merkel and mr holland. europe is not safe! europe has to wake up!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is true that the two main political forces in poland - the pis and po parties - are trying to seize all power and, under the guise of the common good, seize the property and freedom of citizens and determine the order of the stabs. but the union officials only stood by the side that kneels before them. and the institution that robs us of our freedoms and dumbs us down with its monstrous bureaucracy is the european union itself. in poland i can criticize the polish government, but here i will say only this: eu commissioners, you have forgotten where your place is and you want to rule your masters, that is, the nations that appointed you through their governments. you'd better deal with what you've created, the infestation of islamic terror. the resolution should be as drafted by the europe of nations and freedom group: the european parliament considers as unjustified any attempts to interfere in the internal politics of the member states, including poland's internal affairs, and solemnly reaffirms its attachment to the principles of national identity and sovereignty, which form an inseparable unit with the principle of freedom. recalls that the commission is not a political body but an executive body of the union and should strictly observe the treaties.
in writing. the european union is going through the biggest crisis in its history and instead of talking about the future of the european union, a debate is being organised about poland, only because the wrong political group, which would be accountable to the european commissioners, has taken power in poland. the resolution on poland is written in such a general way that it leaves no illusions that it is being constructed by lay people who have not even the slightest knowledge of the current situation in poland and the problems raised in the resolution. the question is, why? why is the białowieża forest of such interest? everyone is an expert now and wants to advise poland on how to preserve the forest, and in their own countries they don't have forests because they destroyed them many years ago. why does the commission want to interfere more and more with the exclusive powers of the polish government and even usurp the right to choose the advisory board of polish ministers? why is the commission still pushing for the reform of polish media, even though the current programme offer is often wider than that proposed in other eu countries? and because for the first time, under the rule of law and justice, poland is free, has its own opinion, stands by its own country, its own citizens, develops its own economy and gains importance on the international stage, and all this is unacceptable to many commissioners and members of parliament.
mr. chairman, please! there are no scripts. we just realize that among these scenarios, the ones that are are more or less expensive. and you can see that from the debate today. we know that we have at least three major costs. the first is trust: you can see how much turkey has lost, not so much in the coup, but in the response to the coup. the second thing that's very important, and the second major cost, is the cost of time. it will now take time to return to the state of negotiations, and especially the atmosphere of a year or even two years ago. the third major cost is security. turkey is an important component not only of the european but of the global system of security building. it's a very important ingredient. the loss of confidence, the need to return to negotiations, which are so difficult at the moment, seems to be the most serious challenge for the commissioner as well. and i want to end with one thing: if we can replace the optimism we had with skepticism, with realism, then there is a chance for success. if we turn this into pessimism, it's going to be a disaster.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in gabon, we have seen how much this young democracy - because this is a country that has barely had twenty years of democratic rule - is eager to enjoy its full rights as a citizen. under no circumstances can gabonese society be denied the right to be involved, to take ownership of the elections, to feel responsible for what they mean. democracy, of course, is majority decision-making, but honest debate must precede those decisions. there are two things that gabon needs today: firstly, social peace, as has been repeatedly called for here, and secondly, the development of civil society. we met not only the two main candidates, but also people who spoke with such passion about the need for this development, such as dr. bruno ben moubamba. we should help them. i would like to thank maria gabriel in particular for her work, for her presence, because i am sure that the many weeks of work she and her team have put in have helped to conduct these elections and help to ensure that they are fair.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. today, the term "social dumping" is very controversial, it's a very controversial topic. due to the effects of the economic and financial crisis and the difficult labour market situation in some member states, it is being used for political struggle by anti-european and populist circles. the expression 'social dumping' has been used more and more frequently in european parliament documents, which in my view is unacceptable given the fact that there is no legally binding definition of social dumping. in the european parliament, we are committed to producing clear and transparent legislation. by not following these rules, we have created a situation where populists and nationalists manipulate this return in every possible way, deceiving our societies. through negotiations and the goodwill of many political groups, we have succeeded in developing a definition of social dumping, and i believe this is one of the greatest achievements and most important elements of the report. in the european parliament we agree that we must fight against the breaking and abuse of the law to reduce labour costs and the non-respect of workers' rights. i hope that this definition of the problem will stop being a fodder for populists and eurosceptics and will reduce attacks and accusations against, among others, foreign workers and companies for taking jobs and unfair competition. when we talk about social dumping, we should focus our attention first and foremost on the actual practices that are breaking the law, such as bogus self-employment, the activities of letterbox companies or unregistered work. the report on which we shall be voting tomorrow contains a number of recommendations in this regard. from the outset, the epp has identified what it considers to be priority actions, such as better enforcement of national and european law, strengthening cooperation between member states, improving the exchange of information, for example on the social status of workers, and identifying and closing legal gaps. i would like to conclude by referring to the issue of the posting of workers. very often, companies that outsource their employees are unfairly accused of social dumping. remember, in most cases, they are honest businessmen. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i have to tell you that i would be the happiest person if the people of my country could earn the same as the people of western europe. but unfortunately, we are a developing country and we still need time to reach the same standards as western europe. and that's why it's so hard to even out the payroll with one pull. i wish that could happen, but it's impossible.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. human capital is the greatest asset of any business. good human capital management is the key to the success of any business. in the case of social dumping, however, it is this capital that can be squandered and therefore this phenomenon should be seriously and specifically addressed, i.e. its causes, the circumstances in which it arises, the criteria for its recognition, preventive action, the reasons for and remedial action, and then control and enforcement. however, social dumping has not yet been precisely defined. so how do you counteract something, fix something, improve something that's not yet well defined? it is inevitable that any decision in the interpretation of this problem and recommendations can be considered discretionary, even instrumental. in my view, the problem of social dumping must first be defined with determination, precision and urgency, and then appropriate and rational action must be taken.
in writing. i did not find the council's proposed cuts in the 2017 draft eu budget particularly surprising. this is a practice that we have been experiencing systematically for a long time in the eu budget planning. i was concerned, however, to see the substantial cuts in title 3, totalling almost eur 24.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 21.6 million in payment appropriations. while acknowledging that both commitments and payments in this heading remain at a higher ceiling than in this year's budget, i would point out that this heading has been particularly affected by cuts motivated by new needs linked to the challenges facing the union in recent times. i would also point out that although many of these cuts may seem small, given the existence of relatively small budgets, small but emblematic and successful programmes such as cooperation in the fields of culture, education, youth and sport, these cuts may jeopardise their effective implementation and thus the delivery of the expected results. as rapporteur for the ep committee on culture and education on the 2017 budget, i strongly reiterate that investments in culture and education contribute disproportionately to promoting smart, sustainable economic growth and are a strategic investment in human capital.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation drawn up on behalf of the committee on international trade on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the southern african development community (sadc) states, of the other part, to which an economic partnership agreement applies (10107/2016 - c8-0243/2016 - 2016/0005 (nle)) (rapporteur: alexander graf lambsdorff) (a8-0242/2016) and question for a reply to the commission by mr bernde lange and mr alexander lambsdorff, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the parliamentary oversight of the eu-sadc economic partnership agreement and the mechanism for social monitoring of that agreement by the citizen (osa-000108 - bsa-0136/2016).
mr. chairman, please! african countries are among the poorest in the world, and poverty, as we all know, causes a lot of pathology. but pathologies don't just affect poor people; they also affect those who are rich. this poverty that is in africa is the poverty that we know and feel in europe as well. and one of the effects of that is the migration from poorer countries, including africa, right here to us. i must be honest, i was surprised to hear a colleague speak here who, in the aspect we are talking about, saw only the problem of a few sicilian oranges and did not see the problem of 500 million europeans and over a billion people living in africa. international agreements are now an instrument not only to increase trade, not only to increase economic growth, but also to reduce disparities between communities, to reduce poverty, and therefore if poverty is reduced, then disease is reduced. let's be against pathology, let's be for this deal. i'm with her.
after the rapporteur's speech, we no longer use the 'blue card' procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2016.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr norbert linz, mr pavel poc, mr julie girling, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr younous omarjee, mr keith taylor and mr marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the main objectives for the 17th conference of the parties to the cites convention in johannesburg (south africa) (o-000088/2016 - b8-0711/2016) and the oral question to the commission by mr norbert linz, mr pavel poc, mr julie girling, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr younous omarjee, mr keith taylor and mr marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the main objectives for the 17th conference of the parties to the cites convention in johannesburg (south africa) (cites-jha) (o-000089/2016 - b8-0712/2016).
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! there was no official optimism in today's state of the union address, because there is no basis for optimism. today's zeitgeist climate will not be conducive to the celebration of another anniversary of the treaties of rome. europe is full of fear and human fear is always a fertile ground for populism and xenophobia. these are the realities of today. it's xenophobia and populism that dictate the agenda, the tone of public debate, and the management of human emotions. we've managed to combine all the threats with open borders, immigration, xenophobia. the pioneer in this field was undoubtedly nigel farage, but he is now very well cloned in many countries, so this political season the key word for the european soul will be security, in all its variations, from border security to labour market security. we have to take that challenge, we have to take that confrontation, because if in the human imagination the safe haven is the nation state, then we are in a lost position, and that is an illusion, because there is no national answer to the challenges of our time. i think the theme of the summit in bratislava is well chosen. instead of going out and demonstrating differences, divisions, or helplessness, we need to find a common denominator, which is a common response to security needs. so in this case, the common denominator is not the lowest common denominator. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. you speak of populism and president juncker has not said a word about the family, about family rights, when the family crisis and the birth crisis are at the root of the immigration crisis that has been going on for decades. you're the populists. is that why you're afraid to talk about family, because family is a mutual obligation, and that's something that populists can't talk about?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. president juncker chose his own words for his speech and i think he has chosen the right tone and words for his speech in the climate we have in europe today.
in writing. the world is getting bigger and the european union is getting smaller, demographically and economically said jean claude juncker in his state of the union address today. what's the recipe for that? more europe within europe. the ec, the executive, would become a political body, a quasi-government. federica mogherini european minister for foreign affairs, also taking over the responsibilities of the member states' defence ministers. the eu's main defence objective would be to create a joint headquarters alongside nato's command structures, and countries such as poland and romania, instead of strengthening their armies, would be considering how to transfer equipment and personnel to a unified european pool. the litmus test of the elite's intentions is the diagnosis of external threats. in ukraine, over 60 soldiers have been killed in the last 10 weeks. juncker's speech did not say a word about the ongoing russian aggression. the idea of deepening integration in the field of the cfsp is simply a tool for implementing a political plan, a plan of domination, the creation of a federalist body that imitates the structure of the nation state. the affirmative words addressed to the polish people are accompanied by unacceptable pressure on the polish government. it is difficult not to mention the erroneous assumptions of eu demographic policy. juncker's speech shows that brexit has not caused reflection among the elites who are the main leadership stream of the european union. instead of reforming europe, we are seeing a deepening of negative trends. it's the way to the fall of the union.
in writing. in his state of the union address in strasbourg today (14 september 2016), european commission president jean-claude juncker stressed that brexit is not a threat to the eu. but the consequences of britain leaving the eu are unpredictable. the new rules for eu-uk cooperation will need to be established, and the eu institutions are eagerly awaiting a letter confirming the british decision to leave the community. it's been almost three months since the referendum and there's been no official response from the british government. what will the eu budget look like in the future, until the british pay their dues? there are a lot of questions. only those countries that respect all the freedoms of the union can have access to the common market, and that is precisely what the united kingdom has the most reservations about. member states are not cooperating enough with each other and too often national interests are put ahead of the good of the union as a whole, which is the guarantor of peace, something that many citizens seem to have forgotten. president juncker also welcomed the new ec proposal for copyright reform published today. in this context, i am afraid that instead of modernising the legal framework that is already 15 years old, the commission has proposed to protect the analogue industry from digital innovation. not only will this be tragic for these industries in the long run, but it will be a disaster for free speech online and will block the ability of european start-ups to innovate.
in writing. the future of the european union is decided by young people, their level of education, their preparation for life in an intercultural society and their access to the labour market. supporting these objectives requires appropriate policies and guidelines, which we must ensure are effectively implemented, and adequate financial security. i therefore ask the commission to consider amending the stability and growth pact to exclude education, research and innovation from the calculation of the deficit threshold. such a practice is already in place for expenditure arising from unforeseen events and should be extended to cover that expenditure in order to encourage member states to invest in young people and in building a knowledge-based economy.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! just before the vote, during the state of the union debate, an unacceptable incident occurred. in the european parliament's chamber, not in the diplomatic gallery, was the russian ambassador to the european union, mr chizhov. the european parliament is not the russian duma, and russian diplomats should not be coming here and talking to members during our debate. this is unacceptable and i ask that this situation not happen again in the future.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the rapporteur's position. i believe that cooperation between the member states (including croatia) and switzerland is beneficial for both parties. the signing of the protocol by switzerland and croatia will facilitate the free movement of persons. this is a key aspect of the document, and i fully support it, because the issue of guaranteeing the free movement of persons is very important for citizens. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ due to their geographical proximity and cultural links, the member states of the european union are switzerland's most important political and economic partners. over a million community citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross its borders daily on their way to work, while some 430 000 swiss citizens have chosen the union area to live and work. the report on the protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons relates this time to the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu in 2013. meps voted in favour of signing the protocol, which is part of the standard procedure for any enlargement of the european union. this will be politically, economically and culturally beneficial for croatia, the european union and switzerland, which will benefit from greater access to the internal market based on the free movement of persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement following its accession to the european union. the european union, composed of 28 member states, is switzerland's most important partner because of its geographical proximity and cultural proximity, and in particular its political and economic importance. although switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. over a million eu citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross the border every day to work. around 430 000 swiss citizens live in the eu. with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, the internal market has expanded to almost 505 million people, making it even more important for our swiss partner. in my view, switzerland can only benefit from the expansion of the eu internal market, and therefore the signing of this protocol is politically, economically and culturally beneficial for both croatia and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has been signed subject to its conclusion at a later date. the protocol should now be concluded on behalf of the european union and its member states. the council may adopt an act only after obtaining the consent of parliament. following a referendum in february 2014, a new article was added to the swiss federal constitution. the most important provisions of this article state that switzerland regulates immigration itself, may impose restrictions on residence permits and quotas, and that companies are obliged to give priority to swiss nationals when recruiting staff. the initiative states that no treaty or international agreement may derogate from the newly introduced article. switzerland and the eu member states enjoy comparable benefits from the internal market and both croatia and switzerland would undoubtedly benefit from signing the current protocol, in which the free movement of persons is an essential element. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the swiss referendum 'against mass immigration' resulted in changes to the swiss constitution, while violating the agreement on the free movement of persons. after croatia's accession to the eu, a protocol was negotiated which includes some temporary labour market restrictions and quantitative limits for croatian citizens, but is a good step towards the implementation of the eu's fundamental freedoms. that is why i voted to accept protocol iii.
in writing. ‒ in the year 2000 an agreement on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu-15 was signed. coming into force in 2002, this agreement has since then been extended. it was applied to the 10 new member states, only to be amended yet again after the accession of bulgaria and romania. now it has to be extended once again for the newest member of the european union, croatia. switzerland and the eu have an undeniably strong tie in several aspects, which both parties benefit from. with this in mind, we have to apply the principle of non-discrimination, including equal treatment, and therefore vote in favour of this protocol. from political, to economic, to cultural aspects, the signing of protocol iii will enable croatia and switzerland to profit in those areas, and will additionally expand the internal market, where the free movement is essential.
in writing. ‒ i support the document whose main purpose is to regulate the issue of invitations to the chair of the employment committee to participate in any tripartite social summit. i am very pleased that all the eu institutions share this view and are positively attuned to the document described above. i too, as a member of parliament, a member of the european parliament, voted in favour. the presence of the chairman will certainly improve the work and bring benefits during the trilateral summits.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit is a meeting of representatives of the european social partners, the european commission and the council. it takes place on the eve of the autumn and spring european council to discuss the employment and social aspects of the european agenda for growth and jobs. in 2013, the commission proposed to update this instrument to take account of the changes in the eu legal and institutional framework over the last 10 years (article 15 teu and article 152 tfeu). in april 2014, parliament adopted a resolution calling for the chair of the employment committee to be invited more regularly to participate in each social summit. the next summit will take place in october 2016. the council position was announced at the may 2016 plenary session. under rule 99, the committee responsible has six months from that date to make a recommendation. in this resolution, parliament endorses the original 2014 proposal. there is general agreement among all the institutions that the chairman of the employment committee should be invited to participate in the social summits. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite summit is a meeting of representatives of the social partners with the european commission and the council. the resolution provides for updating the summit's operating principles through eu legal and institutional changes. i'm in favor of accepting the motion.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit is a meeting of representatives of the european social partners, the european commission and the eu presidency, whose function is to enable an exchange of views on employment-related issues and the social aspects of the lisbon strategy. the report covers the invitation of the chair of the employment committee to participate in the social tripartite summit, which takes into account the need to share the results and increases the possibility of tackling social problems by a larger group.
in writing. ‒ i support the directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. i believe it is important to adopt technical standards as quickly as possible and to provide a harmonised and consistent framework for the eu legal system and the rules of the central commission for navigation on the rhine (ccnr). i think that doing everything possible to improve the functioning of the sector is a very good initiative, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the need for the ep and the council to adopt a directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the current directive was established in 1982 and subsequently amended in 2006. however, there have been significant changes since then in the technical level of inland waterway vessels. the problem is whether the technical requirements for these vessels are to be defined by individual member states or whether the european union would define such requirements. given the cross-border nature of inland navigation and the need to maintain a high level of safety, technical standards should be established at union level. this would provide a greater guarantee of maintaining high safety standards on all inland waterways in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the southern african development community (sadc) countries covered by the economic partnership agreement. the agreement in its current form covers trade in goods, development cooperation and provisions on trade and sustainable development. one of the reasons i voted for it is that this agreement, it doesn't have to end with those provisions, it gives you the opportunity to negotiate future provisions on services, investments, intellectual property, public procurement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the southern african development community (sadc) economic partnership agreement countries, of the other part. the economic partnership agreements (epas) on trade and development between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, which are intended in principle to promote trade, regional integration and the gradual integration of the acp states into the world economy, as well as to promote their sustainable development. the agreement with the sadc states can be an important step towards further regional integration if further steps are taken to promote technical capacity, for example with regard to rules of origin and trade facilitation. in my view, this agreement can bring about positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth and the development of intra-regional trade and deepening of intra-regional integration.
in writing. ‒ the asymmetrical nature of the agreement leads to so-called positive discrimination between the partners of the southern african development community under the economic partnership agreement, as it provides duty-free access to the eu market while mutually removing barriers to almost all trade and ensuring compliance with wto rules, which is conducive to promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance. the eu will offer a duty-free quota to the five southern african development community countries, continuing the current practice. however, instead of being granted unilateral preferences, trade relations between the southern african development community countries under the economic partnership agreement and the eu have been given the character of contractual arrangements. under the gradual market opening provisions, the southern african development community countries will liberalise 86% of their trade with the eu (mozambique 74%) under the economic partnership agreement over a period of 10 years, excluding sensitive agricultural and fishery products. while this development-oriented regional trade agreement currently covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, it also leaves the possibility to negotiate further provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and more detailed provisions on sustainable development. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ africa is a continent of growth. new businesses are being created every day, and our dependence on the export of raw materials is steadily declining. the economic partnership agreement is a unique instrument that brings the two continents closer together, not only politically or humanitarianally, but above all economically. the agreement contains a number of safeguards for sadc countries that could be used if there was a threat to domestic industry. in addition, the agreement contains pro-development provisions, such as the elimination of export subsidies and the protection clause for new industries. it should be noted that the agreement represents an important step towards strengthening trade relations with africa. for the first time, the union will base our relations not on unilateral concessions but on a joint partnership agreement. i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's recommendation and i believe that the european parliament's unequivocal acceptance of this agreement will send a positive signal to the conclusion of the negotiations on the remaining economic partnership agreements with african countries.
in writing. ‒ the eu-sadc economic partnership agreement is a document designed to facilitate trade between the two parties. it will allow for the mutual removal of barriers, duty-free access to the eu market, which will allow for integration into the world economy. i support the resolution proposed because the eu should play a significant role in the development of african countries. our aim should be to liberalise such elements of the economy as investment, structural reforms and trade in services.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the implementation of the international labour organisation convention on work in the fisheries sector. what is politically controversial and to which i have a general objection are agreements between the social partners, because they are not negotiated by any of the governments of the member states. the political group to which i belong has tabled an amendment to the regulations, pointing out that the social partners should use the tools of better lawmaking. given the current state of the document, i have decided to abstain.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this resolution, even though i am a staunch opponent of the current government. but any pressure from outside strengthens the people's support for their own government and this resolution will help the ruling pis, it will bring him more popularity. that's why i voted against it. i also wanted to point out that if we say that the current law and justice government is a bad government, then imagine how bad the previous governments must have been, that people chose law and justice.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament is dealing with democracy in poland, it wants to check how democracy works in poland, and the context of this work is completely grotesque. in austria, for many months, presidential elections have not been held because the votes cannot be counted correctly. in ireland, during the referendum on changing the natural definition of family in the name of minority rights, people who were in the minority were publicly humiliated. in france, the largest party in parliament has a half percent representation, and in all this, the speaker of our parliament restricts our debate, and why? in the name of what democratic principle? because he has the support of the very political forces that elected him president, and that's a democratic mandate.
in writing. ‒ the decision to join the eu was a political one. it also had a civilization dimension, guaranteeing poland security and the possibility of development. it was a decision of the ages, you might say. this decision also involved the adoption of standards previously adopted and in force in the community. these include the fundamental principles of a democratic state governed by the rule of law. i have no doubt that these fundamental principles are being violated in poland today. the tripartite system of power is broken. the executive branch usurps the powers of the judiciary, starting with the constitutional court. this also applies to the subordination of the prosecution and the judiciary. the media and civil service are also unacceptable. weakening the position of the territorial self-government and limiting the competence of its bodies are actions that contradict the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the constitution of the republic of poland and the european charter of local self-government, which poland ratified in 1994. the european commission initiating the procedure for the protection of the rule of law and the position of the european parliament expressed in the resolution are not external actions towards poland. we are members of the eu and these are our institutions, and the ec is the guardian of the treaties on which the community is founded. that's why i voted to pass the document. it is a very sad day for me because today, through the actions of the pis government, poland opens a very short list of eu countries where democracy and the rule of law are at risk.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the polish delegation, i decided to support the motion for a resolution (b8-0865/2016) because i agree with the counter-argument put forward by the polish side. as the eu cannot interfere with the exclusive competences of the member states, the polish government has not submitted any new legislative proposals, and poland has not signed the eu charter of fundamental rights. i find it inappropriate to interfere so oppressively in the internal affairs of the republic of poland. as a member of the polish delegation, i decided to reject the motion for a resolution (b8-0977/2016) in the vote, on the grounds that the allegations made by the polish side are not in line with the facts.
in writing. - we've seen another clown this year. the european parliament is dealing with a fictitious crisis of democracy in poland. meanwhile, the eu is facing the biggest crisis in its history. i am surprised at the arrogance and conceit that are pouring into the text of the resolution. i feel like all that's missing is a short dedication: "to ourselves" with the admiration we owe ourselves. this resolution does not solve any of europe's real problems. on the contrary, it is a model example of the eu's hypocrisy that led the uk to the brexit decision. the resolution clearly interferes with the internal competences of a member state, turns a blind eye to the growing threat of terrorism in europe and wants to block citizens' initiatives even though it accuses the polish government of human rights violations. the accusation of destruction of the białowieża forest is the height of hypocrisy, when the obligation to act stems from eu directives. ladies and gentlemen! for this document, no one will thank you - except the polish opposition. the naivety with which you fight the fictitious crisis of polish democracy would be ridiculous if it weren't so painful. i am reminded of a story about a tombstone that says, "here lies the stranger who did good and evil. good things done wrong, bad things done right. your business is closing in on those exact words.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's adoption of yet another resolution on poland demonstrates how much the eu needs reform, especially as regards the extent to which eu institutions can interfere in the policies of sovereignly elected governments. fortunately, the attempt to draw the attention of the european public to poland's alleged violation of the rule of law has failed, as evidenced by the extremely low turnout during the debate on the issue. yet the subject is still on the minds of the eu's most important politicians! today we face enormous challenges that threaten not only the very existence of the european union but also the security of our continent, and europeans' attention is being diverted to alternative topics. brexit was a warning that the current structure and way of doing things in the eu does not give citizens in the member states the confidence that these challenges can be overcome. seeking excuses for their own ineffectiveness in criticizing the actions of the government of the republic of poland is a dead end that european elites are increasingly falling into. none of the charges that this resolution makes against poland is covered in reality, and the interpretation of many facts is biased and takes into account only one point of view, which is unfavourable to our country. of course, on the basis of the above arguments, i voted against the adoption of this unfair, unfounded and politically motivated resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu's efforts to strengthen cooperation with tunisia, the first country to host the arab spring and the first democratic elections (2014). i voted in favour because this cooperation can bring very many benefits to the member states in the fields of trade, investment, culture and security.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic transition in tunisia over the past five years is a good example for the arab world and its consolidation is essential for the stability of the entire region, with direct implications for security in europe. the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the tunisian economy is in a difficult economic and social situation. in the current crisis, it is necessary to create a fund to support democratic change, investment and development in all sectors of economic and social life in a holistic manner. in particular, money is needed to create new jobs and maintain high-quality public services that are widely available. the european parliament's report rightly drew attention to the need for the union to be involved in helping this young democracy. that is why i have decided to support the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution because tunisia is an important partner of the eu in the european neighbourhood policy. political change, the country's ongoing democratisation, the government's commitment to freedom of expression and civic issues make it essential to maintain and strengthen the current partnership. the pursuit of innovation, participation in joint research projects and enhanced cooperation on education, culture, promotion of entrepreneurship and women's empowerment shall be supported. the european union will support efforts to ensure the security of the citizens of the member states and of the population in conflict-affected regions of the middle east.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this resolution, of course, because it creates a new instrument, unknown until now. there is no formal concept of 'social dumping' and under this term any instrument can be created to fight the freedom of employment. i did! the report states bluntly that a worker cannot sell his social privilege for money. this restricts the freedom of workers and of course also of employers. mrs. forenza even said that you have to take care of the workers' rights, but i can't sell those rights, which means that mrs. forenza knows better than the worker what's good for him. mrs. lópez bermejo even said that under hitler we should increase control, increase inspection. more control, less freedom. that's what you've been trying to do for a long time. even under stalin, different countries had different laws, and you want to standardize everything. and that is unacceptable, which is why i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! the european union, if it is to be a union of states, must protect the common market, not jointly liquidate it. the hunt for so-called social dumping among our countries is nothing less than the exclusion of the competitiveness of countries which first suffered for several decades from soviet domination, separating them from the free world, and even now cannot increase their competitive advantages by lowering labour costs. we are not joining the european community to put our economy under control. we entered the european union with the conviction that we could operate in the single market and that we would never give up the possibility of genuine competitiveness, of promoting the competitiveness of our companies.
in writing. ‒ on the issue of social dumping in the eu, i decided to abstain. i have reservations about the content of the project. the political group to which i belong has introduced numerous amendments to make it compatible with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. what concerns me and concerns me is the attempt to undermine the competence of the member states in matters of wages, social security, taxation systems and specific labour market reforms. i am a member of a group which is concerned with the preservation of the sovereignty of each member state, and i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses issues such as the role of labour inspectorates and equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. it aims at general definitions of 'social dumping', especially in the transport sector. the report also aims to make a wide range of policy recommendations to promote better social convergence at union level. from the outset, there are many important reservations to the draft text and many amendments have been made to adapt the text in order to comply with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. actions aimed at protecting all workers and ensuring their access to fair working conditions may be supported, but actions designed to undermine the competence of member states may not be supported. this is particularly relevant in wage setting, social security, tax systems and specific labour market reforms. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the best guarantee of economic growth and protection against crisis is a healthy and fair market that generates internal demand. but we have not been able to create a fully integrated single market within the european union for years. instead, we will multiply the burdens on businesses by legislation that destroys competition in the eu. the report on social dumping contains many dangerous provisions which, if implemented, could be a nail in the coffin for eu entrepreneurship and competitiveness. the use of the vague concept of social dumping as a pretext for the introduction of protectionist measures by an increasing number of member states is itself objectionable. at eu level too, there are many proposals for solutions that are supposed to promote social convergence. in particular, attention should be paid to the draft amendment to the directive on the posting of workers and the announcement of the construction of a european pillar of social rights. in my view, social convergence should be a natural process of equalising differences in the economic development of member states and should not be achieved by imposing uniform social standards from above. moreover, such actions are incompatible with the treaty principle of separation of powers and the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore decided to vote against parliament's report and i believe that both the european commission and the council will take action to support and not harm eu citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposed concerns the regulation of social rights in the countries of the european union. important demands such as labour market protection and non-discrimination are worth considering, but the project assumes excessive interference by eu higher-level actors in the internal regulations of the member states. the proposal to unify wages, taxation, social security, which are individual decisions of governments familiar with the specifics of national labour markets, should be questioned. i voted against the adoption of the above motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the role of labour inspectorates and equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. it also aims to define the concept of 'social dumping', especially in the transport sector. there are a number of important objections to the text of the report, the wording of which does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. the european commission's proposal to tackle social dumping is incompatible with the internal market, as it imposes disproportionate burdens on businesses that post workers and may have long-term negative effects. i support measures to protect all workers and ensure their access to fair working conditions, but i cannot support measures to undermine the competence of the member states. this is particularly relevant in wage setting, social security, tax systems and specific labour market reforms.
in writing. ‒ the issue of workers' rights is one of the most widely discussed in the eu today. the increasing popularity of flexible forms of work or the forcing of workers to self-employment, especially in a cross-border context, is contributing to the development of pathology and to the non-compliance by employers with the existing rules on social security or working time. it is one thing to criticise and actually combat such abuses, but quite another to try to attribute to them the objective economic differences between member states. the concept of 'social dumping' which is the subject of this report is extremely imprecise and should not be used in this discussion. it is a misunderstanding to treat the disparity between the minimum wage and social benefits in poland and germany as a form of unfair competition. this interpretation, which the report unfortunately indirectly supports, is extremely dangerous for polish companies that send their employees to provide services throughout the eu and for transport companies that have already been affected by the extremely restrictive minimum wage rules in france and germany. i agree with the intentions of the authors of this report, as long as they were sincere, that decent wages and adequate working conditions are non-negotiable and that workers' rights must be protected and enforced. however, i do not think that this report is acceptable in its present form, which is why i voted against its adoption by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for retail collective investment products and insurance-based investment products (priips). i voted in favour because i believe that implementation should be better planned and that member states should be given the possibility of extending the regulation for one year.
madam president! the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide any evidence that the tax rulings of apple inc. and apple inc. were based on the same principles as the ruling of the general court. such generous tax benefits are not available and have not been available to other companies, especially smes. i am not surprised, therefore, that the european commission has found that the eu competition rules have been infringed by the granting of unlawful state aid. madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. while tax avoidance by companies is of course a common practice, the apple case shows that large multinational corporations are able to influence the amount of tax they pay in host countries, while at the same time member states and their budgets lose tens of billions of euros of tax due each year as a result of these practices. the european parliament has always taken the view that taxes should be paid where profits are made. i therefore call on the commission to step up its efforts to consolidate tax systems while ensuring tax non-discrimination in the single european market.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i welcome this initiative. i just wanted to ask why not earlier? if this had happened a year earlier, we would have solved a lot of cases. second, let's assume that we know the difference between those who are illegal and cannot return because their very existence is threatened, that is, refugees, and illegal immigrants. thirdly, it was mentioned here and it should be emphasized that a significant number of these people do not have documents because they got rid of them. we need to develop an approach whereby the lack of documents does not have to be a factor that favours illegal stay in the union, but on the contrary, the possession of documents is the factor that can guarantee stay. i welcome the coincidence between president juncker's statement today and our debate, because it means that we really want to protect our borders better. i shall be happy to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the effective return of third-country nationals who do not fulfil the conditions for residence in the european union must be an important element of the union's migration policy. this is confirmed by the fact that in 2014 and 2015, less than 40% of irregular migrants returned to their places of origin. there are various reasons for this unfortunate situation. one is the lack of valid travel documents that would be respected by all eu countries. i therefore support the proposal to urgently establish a special european travel document for those third-country nationals who have received a return decision. the commission should also take into account the fact that the introduction of the single european return travel document will radically reduce the administrative burden on consular services, police and border guards. all this should reduce the time and ensure a more effective return of illegally staying third-country nationals to the union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am a great supporter of european solidarity, to which commissioner avramopoulos has so often returned, but i would like to say that solidarity is far from arbitrary and centralistic and always presupposes genuine participation from below, in this case by the individual states. unfortunately, i have to say very clearly that the decision to relocate, the entire relocation program, bears the hallmarks of a program fraught with the error of arbitrariness and centralism. it fails to see the difference between refugees and migrants, it fails to see that the refugees in these areas want to go only to selected rich european countries, and it fails to see the complex context of this situation, which is why i cannot support mrs keller's report and urge the search for other real forms of european solidarity, those which will make it possible to find a real solution to this problem. sticking to the dogma of arbitrary relocation is not going to solve our problems. solidarity has many names, but i am in favour of a version that is far from arbitrary and that represents real participation and voluntary action by the member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with the rapporteur, laura age, that the absence of the council is inexplicable, especially on this subject. i remember the polish presidency in 2011. the council was always represented by polish representatives and participated in almost all debates. it is really unacceptable that these standards, which were introduced in parliament, are not being respected today. especially today. the european parliament, in its institutional structure, is the voice of the people and seeks to represent their interests as best it can. the council of the european union has not taken account of the european parliament's recommendations in the employment guidelines last year. on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to express the hope that this situation will not be repeated in the future. in times of democratic deficit, we cannot afford to ignore the voice of the european people. the priority for the coming months remains job creation. it requires investment in projects that facilitate the creation and operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main source of employment in the european union. another challenge is to facilitate the transition from education to the labour market, and this requires investing in the right skills that are in demand. the problem of skills mismatches with labour market requirements has been known for a long time, but we have not yet been able to fully address it. the focus should be on young people, who are currently in a particularly difficult situation. we must also not forget the elderly, who are an essential part of the labour market in a low demographic situation, and the need to build a stable social security system for workers based on work experience and established rights. all these actions and investments, including expenditure borne by the member states, should be carried out in compliance with budgetary discipline. the fact that europe is emerging from the crisis and that economic parameters are improving is due to austerity policies and the rationalisation of expenditure. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the words of jean-claude juncker today, who said that the stability and growth pact cannot become a flexibility pact. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there is no need for education to be a european union competence. i think that the principle of subsidiarity is the most important principle and we should implement it even more in the european union, especially now, given the criticism we hear from our communities. but they don't interfere with each other. education does not have to be a european union competence to be well-implemented. we implement social policy in europe without these eu competences and we implement it well. we can do the same thing with education.
mr. chairman, please! in employment policy, the first value must be the human being, the worker. methods and measures should therefore be adopted that ensure the optimal, equitable and humane management of human capital. this requires, inter alia, promoting and effectively encouraging the return of the unemployed to work and creating new jobs for young people. we must remember that in the 28 countries of the european union there are 23 million unemployed people, and 4,610,000 of those under 25 are unemployed. we need to create equal opportunities in employment, including for people with disabilities, women, youth, etc. we need to support entrepreneurship, indeed create a fashion for entrepreneurship, counteract social exclusion, create a friendly adaptation model for workers and employers. the present document does not cover all the elements of good employment practice and, moreover, interferes too much with the competences of the member states.
madam president! the postal market in europe is undergoing a transformation which is resulting in a decline in demand for basic services. of course, this process cannot mean that the state is no longer obliged to provide universal postal services, but some reflection on the scope and frequency of their provision is needed. general operators cannot compete effectively on the market for commercial services if they bear the costs of providing services which are redundant from the point of view of the needs of consumers. the establishment of a european digital single market, especially in the area of electronic commerce, means that the parcel market, especially for cross-border deliveries, requires certain regulations that will reduce costs and allow new entrants from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector to enter the market. full access to information such as the price of the service, the delivery time and the cost of returns is particularly important, allowing consumers and businesses to make an informed choice of the best postal service offer.
madam president! i was referring to that last sentence. the post office is a public service. without access to the postal service, a group, an area, a people are simply subject to a process of exclusion, and that's something we would very much like to avoid. let us remember that what we are de facto providing is geographical, economic and financial access to postal services. so we must be prepared to accept that there are some fixed costs. and with that comes, of course, the quality requirements. i'd like to caution against expecting fierce competition. in my country, the government introduced a solution a few years ago - the cheapest, please, the service of providing information from polish courts was implemented in a meat shop, with parsley, and of course the consequences were lamented - just because it was a few pennies cheaper. i also stress the importance of good conditions for postal workers and here i disagree with the ecr lady.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank my counter-reporters for their fruitful cooperation on this report. we have reached a perfect understanding of the main objective of this report. it goes without saying that small and medium-sized enterprises are very important in the european economy. we have provided many figures in our report to substantiate this. i would just like to remind you that over 90% of european companies are smes. smes are a major source of job creation. smes have been a major contributor to employment growth in recent years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. both parliament and the commission have taken initiatives on a number of occasions to promote the development of smes, their access to finance and new markets. we are also debating today, in parallel, the initiative of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on sme financing in the context of the capital markets union. despite these efforts, smes still face many challenges. the job creation potential of smes is still not fully exploited. they are still in many ways at a disadvantage, in an unequal competitive situation compared to large and large companies, especially multinational ones. the persistence of the neglect of smes in the economic policies of the union and the member states, despite the declarations made, is the main reason for this report. in many lands, family businesses and other medium-sized businesses are victims of unstable regulations, unfair court rulings, and overzealous tax authorities. at the same time, the conditions created for the large groups resulted in a de facto privileged position for them over smaller local companies. therefore, the different impacts of national and union regulatory frameworks on these two groups of undertakings should be taken into account when developing the national and union regulatory frameworks. the 'one fits all' principle has proved to be discriminatory for smes. in some cases, the union competition policy itself favours large companies, which have a better chance of benefiting from the regulation than smes. small and local firms are particularly disadvantaged in bureaucratic administrative systems with overburdened regulations, as such systems generate higher fixed costs for businesses. the lack of adequate staff is also a barrier to sme development, due to the lack of adaptation of the training system to the needs of the market, in particular the needs of smes. too many professions and specialties have been artificially academised and insufficient emphasis is placed on the development and good image of vocational education and training, on-the-job learning and apprenticeships. the situation of smes is most difficult in central and eastern europe, where modernisation has been driven by a high share of foreign capital and foreign direct investment, and in southern europe, where fiscal consolidation policies have hit financing sources and internal markets in recent years. in addition, it should be stressed that the countries of central europe and the periphery suffer more from the outflow of young and educated people, resulting in a phenomenon known as brain drain. therefore, a level playing field also means that europe must be seen in terms of its economic diversity rather than in terms of the strongest countries and regions, because then the level playing field becomes, for some players, a field of pitfalls and inequalities.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied. i would like to draw attention to the following points in this debate. firstly, as has been said here, smes generate more than 50% of the eu's gdp and account for more than 70% of the eu's employment. second, due to the wide diversity of micro-enterprises to mid-caps, their business models are characterised by varying degrees of external financing needs. third, bank loans have been the most important source of this financing to date, accounting for 75% of external financing, with considerable differences in borrowing costs between euro area countries, where negative interest rates have been in place for some time, and those outside the euro area, where borrowing costs are much higher. non-bank sources of finance are playing an increasing role in sme financing: bonds, stock exchanges, securitisation, but also funds from the union budget, such as the cosme programme. it is therefore good that in recent days the commission has allocated an additional pln 200 million to the cosme programme, and the efsi programme has a chance of receiving more funding.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. smes account for over 90% of all enterprises and provide over two thirds of total employment in the non-financial corporations sector in the european union. the report stresses the importance of diversifying sme financing options, and also notes the need for administrative and tax facilitation. it emphasises innovative financial instruments without underestimating the role of banks, as loans and credits are still the most important source of sme financing today. i think the implementation of the support has a good chance of success. thank you for your cooperation, mr. rapporteur. as for the report itself, i think it reflects the current situation in the sme sector, but i cannot help feeling that by including so many amendments, the content has become a little less transparent.
madam president! the importance of the topic that professor krasnodębski has tackled, which is very much needed and topical, can be seen from the following figures: there are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union, which account for almost 99% of all enterprises in the union and employ more than 74 million people. so without these companies, there would be no new jobs, no innovation, no entrepreneurship, no growth. these companies are the salt of any national economy. the report by professor krasnodębski is all the more valuable because, in addition to making important recommendations on how best to exploit the potential of smes, the professor notes and warns against real risks in the development of entrepreneurship, including the lack of a coherent and secure law, excessive bureaucratisation of administrative systems, the failure of a universal model for job creation, skills mismatches and the so-called brain drain phenomenon. in conclusion, this is a very good document in terms of real support and development of entrepreneurship.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, following this exchange, i am even more convinced that there is a lot we can do to boost the potential of smes and micro-enterprises to create jobs and growth. we need an intelligent approach which combines immediate initiatives to kick-start investment with longer-term work to improve the investment environment. building a capital markets union is an important part of this work. i hope we can work together to get the initial new proposals agreed and shift the focus to more ambitious action, building on your suggestions and recommendations. i found it particularly valuable to have a joint debate on access to finance and on the job creation potential of smes. the two issues are very closely linked. you have made many valuable suggestions and recommendations. the commission stands ready to work with you on how to integrate them across the various policy areas highlighted in the two reports.
the rapporteur. thank you very much for all the valuable comments that have been made in this discussion. i can only add one thing, because we have spoken a lot here about finance and the importance of access to appropriate funds and other barriers to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, but i would like to say one additional thing which may have sounded too weak here, namely that all this cannot be achieved, you cannot achieve the development of small and mediumsized enterprises without promoting an entrepreneurial culture. well, a recent survey was conducted in germany among students, asking where german students, and this is not the weakest economic country in europe, would like to work. well, 36% of the female students and 23% of the male students said they would like to work in the civil service. it was the preferred workplace of the state administration. then women said cultural institutions, and men said the automotive industry was second. and it shows that this entrepreneurial culture is something that we should be encouraging, because it's not a good sign to believe that the best career, the safest career, is in public service. that's one comment. i would like to add the second aspect that i mentioned, but perhaps that didn't come out strongly enough either. well, we point out in this report the diversity of smes in europe, that this diversity depends on the country or region in which they are born and develop, the barriers are very different and the degree to which these companies are fighting certain obstacles is very different. we should also take account of this difference, but the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises in the podlasie and baden-württemberg regions is quite different, and the commission should also take this into account in its thinking on small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union are the main source of jobs, which is why i believe that business creation should be facilitated by promoting entrepreneurial skills and introducing entrepreneurship into school curricula. this will allow young people to become familiar with the procedures necessary to engage in such activities. in this context, i believe that member states should be encouraged to adopt favourable legislative frameworks to promote and support the employment of young people in smes or to encourage them to start their own business, and regional authorities, educational institutions and social partners should be encouraged to create opportunities for young people to acquire entrepreneurial skills, underlining the importance of business mentoring for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the eu economy, they account for a significant share of employment and make a major contribution to socioeconomic development. these companies face a number of challenges, including a lack of suitably qualified staff, limited access to public funding and unequal conditions of competition with large corporations. addressing these challenges will create the conditions for fair competition, the extension of social security contributions and the tax base to a wider range of actors, and the creation of new jobs and the fight against unemployment, especially among young people. more resources should be allocated to the vocational education and training system, which will enable young people to gain experience and thus integrate into the labour market. there are differences between member states in terms of sme financing needs and conditions. they are the result of specific market and structural circumstances in each country. therefore, local banks that are familiar with the reality of business and have the appropriate competence to assess credit risk are the most effective source of financing for smes. the european union should strive to improve the banking system, but also, given the difficulties in accessing credit faced by smes during the crisis, action needs to be taken to increase access to non-bank sources of finance.
mr. chairman, please! in today's debate, we're going to discuss a number of issues that are worth distinguishing and highlighting. this work is the source of funding for the minimum wage, while the minimum guaranteed income is financed from public funds. in practice, the funding of a guaranteed minimum income can only come from the concrete work of citizens, not from politicians promising a guaranteed income. so, in fact, it's all paid for by working citizens, taxpayers, the state has no resources of its own. a responsible social policy cannot put the state in debt despite its attractiveness in the public eye. a responsible social policy encourages and activates work, not teaches loyalty and dependence. in the context of the minimum wage, it is right to fight for the right to work without exploitation and for the right to work far from the poverty line. it is therefore important to promote the highest possible minimum wage so that it can fulfil its role as a poverty buffer without risking an increase in the grey or black areas. it is therefore important to track the percentage of workers receiving the minimum wage in relation to the total number of employees and to analyse the number of people working in non-minimum wage schemes. after all, it is enough to sign a contract other than an employment contract or to encourage an employee to self-employ in order to circumvent the requirements of a fair, just and decent minimum wage.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is sometimes called the charles darwin society, because the elite of the eu's governments support the interests of its strong partners. if that is the case, then how can the union guarantee equality in employment and work if the stronger side wins in this pseudo-equality? the transport directive, which is designed to destroy poland's fleet of trains and lorries, the largest in europe, by introducing the so-called minimum wage or rules on posted workers, is it a manifestation of the union's struggle for equal treatment in employment and work, or is it simply a hidden or overt protectionism of the strongest? is the employment rate of disabled people below 50% compared to the employment rate of the general population of 70% a union's hallmark and a point of pride, or is it a sign of the superiority of the stronger? the european union should and must therefore take the issue of equal treatment in employment and work seriously and fairly.
mr. chairman, please! the report by ms harkin sums up very well the achievements of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) so far. the report rightly addresses the important issue of the need to distinguish between this fund and the european social fund (esf). of course, these are complementary instruments and often address the same target group. however, it should be borne in mind that whereas the esf has a multiannual programming cycle, the egf is an instrument that can respond more quickly. therefore, the greatest possible synergy between these instruments should be sought. the esf can be seen as a complementary and continuing support measure in the areas of intervention of the egf. it is important to invest in long-term solutions that improve the labour market and the skills of workers. unfortunately, the proportion of self-employed among those receiving support from the egf is low and this is an issue that needs to be addressed.
member of the commission. – mr president, we had very productive and constructive discussions, and i know somalia because i visited the country and i met the minister and other officials. regarding education, let me confirm that i have already put in place emergency projects for education in the country, which we want to sustain and expand. you know that i focus on education – and especially in this area in somalia – and i think it is important to insist on this project. somalia often hits the headlines, seldom positively. however, following decades of civil war in the area, over the past few years we have witnessed progress – albeit a bit slow – towards state building and democratisation. the forthcoming electoral process will not take the form of universal suffrage, the electoral form familiar to us. some 14 000 people will be involved and, while they will represent only a fraction of the population, it is an improvement from 2012 when 135 clan elders selected the members of parliament. this should be a stepping stone to ‘one person, one vote’ elections in 2020. female participation and representation are paramount. the eu has, throughout, consistently insisted on securing a somali commitment to 30% female representation in parliament. more than two decades of civil war have had a devastating effect on respect for human rights. women, children and minorities in general, displaced persons and persons with disabilities have often paid the highest price. abuse, domestic violence and discrimination against women are flagrant and, although somalia has ratified the un convention on the rights of the child, children remain victims of all the parties to the armed conflict. the eu delegation started implementation of a new set of measures in 2016 through the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), specifically targeting the nexus between human rights and security. one of the main aims is to develop a better connection between human-rights activists and organisations and the government, including the police, the legal profession and the judiciary, in order to provide high-quality, accountable and rights-based safety and security services for victims of sexual and gender-based violence, and thereby break the culture of impunity for the perpetrators of such crimes. on the death penalty also, it is disturbing that somalia has ended the de facto moratorium. capital punishment is a serious violation of human rights and dignity. as somalia embarks on the electoral process, the un published last month a timely report on the right to freedom of expression. freedom of expression is key in building a democratic nation, and even more so in times of political transition, with a view to providing space for public debate. somali journalists censured for such debate are continually attacked, and harassed and sometimes arrested. media outlets are being closed and proper investigation and prosecution remain rare – leading to a general sense of impunity. these and other issues confirm that building functioning justice institutions is one of the most important tasks in terms of ensuring the rule of law in somalia. communities in areas recovering from the activities of al-shabaab must benefit from peace dividends, including in the form of justice delivery after decades of being left at the mercy of these militants. the european union is closely working with somalia to address these matters and we remain committed to continuing to do so with the new leadership.
in writing. four years after the appointment of 275 members of parliament, somalia is consistently working to rebuild its institutions. he is working on a law on political parties and the establishment of an independent national human rights commission, and is also preparing for parliamentary and presidential elections in the autumn of this year. it is important that the electoral process is transparent and democratic and that freedom of expression and media pluralism are guaranteed. the taliban have been active in the region since the beginning of the conflict in late 2011. this is also one of the reasons why the elections will not be universal this time. the 11 million people will be represented by 14,000 electors. i hope that the eu will actively support somalia in building democracy and security in the country and that citizens will be able to vote in general elections in 2020.
author. – mr president, apparently the elderly president mugabe after 36 years in power – bringing to his country patronage, kleptocracy, poverty, violence and massive demonstrations – still wants real action. i therefore call for the immediate release of political prisoners, respect for human rights, impartial provision of humanitarian aid, and a peaceful transfer of power in upcoming elections.
rapporteur. – madam president, we would like to change the formulation ‘additional administrative burdens’ to ‘unnecessary administrative burdens;’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the increase in the rate of return of irregular migrants is crucial for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. the eu's external action must be coordinated with the member states and the commission, and the eu's external action must be coordinated with the member states and the commission. the commission has also provided information on the number of returnees who have been granted a residence permit in the member state concerned. by standardising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting times in the hope of achieving wider recognition of the document by third countries. in my view, ensuring the exchange of information between member states on the issuing of travel documents and on persons registered as illegally staying third-country nationals without valid travel documents will contribute to increasing the level of mutual recognition of asylum decisions in the eu and to avoiding secondary movements of persons who have been refused asylum.
in writing. ‒ this report updates the european standard travel document, which was created in 1994 to speed up the return of third-country nationals illegally staying in eu countries without valid passports or identity documents. many eu countries are currently facing serious difficulties in organising the safe and legal return of these people to their countries. the acceptance of the replacement documents used by the member states by the countries of destination is currently low due to insufficient security details and different formats. the lack of valid travel documents issued by certain third countries is also a major obstacle to the success of the return process. the review of this document creates a common format for the european travel document. the new technical data contained in it would also include personal data. the application of the same security features as those established in 2002 for visas issued by eu countries to residents without valid travel documents should result in greater recognition of documents and a reduction in the administrative burden both within the eu and for the authorities of the countries of destination. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, eu member states issued almost half a million return orders for migrants who do not have the right to enter or stay in the eu. however, only 40% of them actually returned to a non-eu country. one of the main obstacles to return is the lack of valid travel documents for returnees. the effective return of third-country nationals who do not fulfil or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry, stay or residence in the eu is essential to ensure the credibility and proper functioning of the eu's migration policy and to reduce and deter illegal migration. the report rightly emphasises the need for eu member states to ensure the effective use of the european return travel document, which will contain information on the departure and arrival of a third-country national. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation with diplomatic missions in this regard, while respecting applicable international law and european union law.
in writing. ‒ the european travel document is an instrument essential for the proper management of asylum policy. the european union has a duty to protect and ensure the security of its citizens and it is therefore unacceptable that it does not exercise control over persons who are not covered by the union's asylum policy. it is necessary to speed up the process of issuing and standardising documents and to introduce a security system so that such persons can leave the borders of the european union without undue delay. i voted to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 7 march 2016, eu heads of state or government agreed on a set of principles underpinning the agreement with turkey, including resettlement in accordance with the principle that any readmission of a syrian from the greek islands to turkey will be accompanied by the resettlement of another syrian from turkey to eu member states, within the framework of existing commitments. the proposed amendment is to count the actions taken by member states in relation to the reception of syrians in turkey by resettlement, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission against the number of applicants for international protection to be relocated to their territory by council decision 2015/1601. in accordance with that amendment, and for 54 000 asylum seekers, member states may subtract from their allocation of asylum seekers to be relocated the number of syrians residing in turkey admitted to their territory by means of resettlement, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission under national or multilateral programmes other than the resettlement programme. i could not support the report.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. in principle, the provision of humanitarian assistance and shelter to those fleeing their countries because of the tragic situation in syria should be an obvious obligation for all member states, but the solutions proposed in the draft may not produce the expected results. the relocation programme is not yet fully developed, so the obligation for all eu countries to implement it could endanger the security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the guidelines for member states' employment policies, i would point out the need to evaluate the youth employment initiative and to step up action to reduce youth unemployment in the eu, which remains high at over 40%. it is also important to use european programmes and funds effectively to finance the modernisation of higher education systems in order to better adapt them to the needs of the labour market and to changing social and economic conditions. we also need more support for vet institutions to improve the quality and flexibility of teaching.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that up to a quarter of the eu population is at risk of varying degrees of poverty and social exclusion. this extremely difficult situation, characterised, inter alia, by the persistently high unemployment rate, requires the adoption of measures to encourage member states to assist the unemployed and those on the lowest incomes. analysis of member states' national reform programmes indicates that member states continue to focus too little on increasing labour force participation, reducing unemployment, and increasing the skills of the labour force in response to labour market expectations and needs. the situation of young people in europe is still particularly difficult - despite a slight improvement in recent times. this is particularly true of the southern european countries most affected by the crisis, but also of some of the new member states. continuing high youth unemployment could lead to the fulfilment of our dark vision of a 'lost generation in europe' and jeopardise the future of the continent. in this context, it is particularly important to promote quality employment, the link between science and business and the promotion of lifelong learning.
in writing. ‒ the common employment policy framework in the member states can be an important reference point in the design of future labour market and employment promotion policy plans. however, the specificities of the approach to employment policy in all member states must be taken into account; the harmonisation of rules and the overreaching of higher-level eu bodies beyond the competences conferred by the treaties may result in too much interference in the market and not bring the expected results. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the complex draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because, although it deals with issues of importance to eu societies and contains important observations, it infringes on the question of competence. the guidelines for employment policies are largely the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will take place in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october, with the eu as a party for the first time. cities is an intergovernmental agreement designed to ensure that trade in endangered species does not lead to their extinction. i supported this report because it contains specific recommendations on transparency of decision-making, improved reporting, financing and enforcement, rules to combat illicit trade and corruption, and species-specific proposals. the project also supports the proposals of the eu and its member states, in particular those relating to the fight against corruption and the establishment of standards for trophy hunting, and the extension of the cites scope to protect certain species imported into the eu as pets and certain movable objects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. the 2008 amendment to the postal services legislation has allowed the key objectives of liberalising european postal services to be achieved. since the full opening in 2008, the postal market has undergone a major transformation. on the one hand, the volume of paper correspondence has decreased in many member states. on the other hand, new technologies are increasing the convenience of online shopping and, as a result, the number of parcels delivered by postal operators is increasing. good quality postal services are an essential part of communication in the eu internal market and the eu postal sector continues to make a significant contribution to strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. in my view, promoting competition in this sector is also important in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of sustainable growth and a more competitive economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. speaking of postal services. in my view, we must focus primarily on improving the free movement of services within the european union and increasing their availability and accessibility at national and transnational level, while adapting to economic, social and technical changes. i would like to stress the need to improve transparency and price attractiveness, to introduce a functional mechanism for resolving disputes and complaints, and to provide technological solutions to enable clear monitoring of consignments. it is also necessary to increase the universality and geographical coverage of postal services so that citizens living in rural, mountainous or remote regions have access to high-quality services that meet their needs. the rights of postal workers, whose high mobility requires, among other things, the guarantee of a safe working environment and health protection, remain an important issue.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 amendment to the postal services legislation has achieved the key objectives of liberalising european postal services. however, since the full opening in 2008, the postal services market has undergone a huge transformation. on the one hand, the volume of paper correspondence has decreased in many member states. on the other hand, new technologies are increasing the convenience of online shopping and thus the number of parcels delivered by postal operators. as a result, more than half of the postal sector's total revenue comes from parcel and express deliveries. the report stresses the obligation to provide, on affordable terms, a high-quality universal service covering at least five days of delivery and five days of collection per week for every eu citizen. it was also stressed that given the limitations of each market operators should be allowed some flexibility to organise this universal service. the independence of national regulatory authorities was noted and the emphasis was placed on interoperability and it was stressed that each member state has a certain margin of discretion in the application of the postal services directive. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ good quality postal services are an essential part of communication in the eu's internal market. from the collection, transport, sorting and delivery of letters and parcels to homes and offices, postal service providers offer a wide range of services at affordable prices. other sectors such as e-commerce, publishing, mail order, insurance, banking and advertising are heavily dependent on the postal infrastructure. the eu postal sector therefore remains a key contributor to social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. in recent years, the postal services market has undergone a profound transformation, which has resulted in a decrease in the number of letters sent, a rapid increase in the number of parcels delivered, linked to the popularity of electronic commerce, and the emergence of new customer needs. the european union must therefore adapt its regulations to these changes. the focus should be primarily on improving the quality and accessibility of universal service provision and on making cross-border parcel delivery more accessible. moreover, emphasis should be placed on market surveillance to identify anti-competitive practices and to increase price transparency for retail users and businesses. it is also important to promote value-added services such as tracking of consignments and flexible delivery.
in writing. ‒ postal services are an important element in the efficient transmission of information, regional development and the overcoming of territorial barriers. the turnover of letter items is declining, while the number of parcels delivered is steadily increasing, to the benefit of the consumer market. employment in these services is expected to increase in the coming years. it is important that the member states of the european union continue to take care of the liberalisation of this market segment, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the postal services market has undergone a major transformation in recent years. the demand for traditional postal services is decreasing due to technological developments, while the demand for parcel delivery is increasing, mainly due to the expansion of online shops. the provision of basic postal services is recognised as one of the obligations of the state, and it is therefore important to discuss the scope of the universal postal service obligation. a comprehensive knowledge of developments in the postal market is important in order to obtain a global picture of the market. the crossborder parcel delivery market, which has significant growth potential, should be an area of particular interest, and i therefore support the commission's efforts to support the development of this market sector. i also support the commission's efforts to launch a platform that brings together all the information on market players. such actions will be beneficial first and foremost to the customer and to the possibility of making the best choice for him.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the current situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe, highlighting the potential benefits and risks that european smes have had to face and still have to face. smes and midcaps are a significant part of the eu economy. that's why their access to funding is so important. during the crisis, smes had more limited access to finance than larger companies. factors such as the high reliance of smes on bank lending and the deleveraging of banks caused by the crisis have contributed to this. diversification of sme financing opportunities is therefore one of the priorities of the cmu initiative and the report considers such opportunities, with an emphasis on innovative financial instruments. the report also stresses the need for administrative and tax facilitation for smes, as a simple and fair tax system is the best way to guarantee the development of smes. the role of banks should not be ignored, as bank loans remain the most important source of sme financing. it is also important to increase the knowledge of smes themselves about all sources of funding. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises and midcaps make up a significant part of the european union's economy. increasing access to finance has long been a priority for the eu, but the crisis in recent years has severely limited the scope for its implementation. the aim of the capital markets union currently in place is to diversify funding opportunities for smes. the european parliament's report analyses the entire life cycle of smes from a financing point of view and proposes to improve financing conditions at all stages. the report concludes that bank loans remain the most important source of finance for smes, but that improvements are needed in this area. the document also stresses the need to maintain a supportive factor for smes in relation to capital requirements. in a situation where almost 99% of all enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises, it is necessary to take measures to facilitate their access to finance. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ the sme sector plays a vital role in the economic development of the member states, in generating their gdp and in creating new jobs, and it is therefore essential to open up new sources of finance for these entities. the focus should be on banking (loans, loans) and non-bank (public issue, securitisation, crowdfunding) methods of raising capital to enable enterprises to diversify their contributions to their business. i support the solutions presented in the report.
madam president! small and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation of the eu economy. as many as 99% of companies in the union are in this group and they account for nearly two thirds of jobs. moreover, in times of crisis, they have proved to be the most stable element of the european economy and the main creator of new jobs. on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that these jobs are not always of good quality. the source of this situation is to be found in the difficult situation of this segment of companies. member state governments very often give preferential treatment only to multinational corporations, offering them special legal status and tax benefits, while local, small and medium-sized enterprises do not enjoy these privileges. this unequal competition forces them to reduce their labour costs. if we want to improve the labour market, we should therefore first of all give more support to small and medium-sized enterprises in their unequal struggle against global corporations. this will not only help to create new jobs but also to improve the quality of existing ones. it also appears that in this context the european commission needs to assess the impact of the decision to grant china market economy status on the quantity and quality of jobs in the european sme sector. there is a high risk that a positive decision on this issue will contribute to the deterioration of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and thus to the deterioration of the situation on the european labour market. that is why i voted for the directive.
in writing. ‒ smes have created 85% of jobs in europe over the last decade. in 2015, small firms contributed to 71% of the increase in employment in non-financial sectors. despite the rules governing the internal market in the european union, there are still wide disparities in the regulatory framework for smes. the strong regional variation among member states should be taken into account more when assessing and measuring the impact of eu policies. due to the multiple obstacles to job creation, the principle of the universal model has proved to be discriminatory for the sme sector. in addition, the lack of macroeconomic stability and transparent regulations has resulted in a disadvantageous environment for smes in many countries that joined the union after 2004 and in euro area countries that are experiencing a crisis. the rapporteur stressed that in order to create a robust environment for entrepreneurship and to increase the potential for job creation, national and european policies should focus primarily on the issue of skills, legal uncertainty and administrative burdens, and the problem of unregistered work. the rapporteur also drew attention to the need to guarantee a level playing field for smes in terms of their competitive position compared to large corporations. small and local firms are particularly disadvantaged in over-regulated and bureaucratic administrative systems. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ smes create more jobs than all other private sector jobs, providing about two thirds of employment in the eu. in recent crisis years, they have been the biggest job creators and are often innovative, active internationally and employ young people. the opportunities for smes are even greater, but action is needed at national and eu level to strengthen their job creation potential. the report rightly emphasises that the main issue is the reduction of administrative burdens. smes, because of their smaller size structure, do not have the same absorption capacity with regard to regulatory standards as large companies. over-regulation is hampering the competitiveness of businesses and their job creation potential. the parliament's report rightly emphasises the need to create an environment that encourages investment while promoting sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs. it is also necessary to enforce the rules on equal access of smes to public procurement. the report also rightly highlighted the importance of the 'erasmus for entrepreneurs' programme, which helps young entrepreneurs to acquire the knowledge and useful skills necessary to start and run a successful business. i think it is a very good document, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european labour market is facing a serious problem of unemployment and the need to match labour supply and demand, and therefore it is necessary to stimulate certain segments of the economy. supporting the sme sector through the launch of apprenticeship programmes, access to capital and unlocking potential through simplification of law and taxation, reducing the privileged role of large groups and reducing the share of undeclared work can be of great importance. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that member states implement the 'think small first' principle and therefore support the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report shows that although there are internal market rules in the european union that create a regulatory framework for smes, there are still differences in the stability of this framework. the main problems facing smes are over-regulation and misapplication of the rules that favour and give preferential treatment to large and large enterprises in the eu, and the lack of adequately trained staff. in view of these problems, as well as the problems facing modern europe: unemployment, mismatched jobs, demographic crisis, immigration, it is appropriate to exploit and support the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine and pillar of the european economy and offer significant job creation potential. the report noted the need to look at the regulations and the environment in which they exist in order to make the most of their potential.
madam president! fifteen years after the adoption of the employment equality directive, we seem to have accumulated a certain amount of knowledge and experience which allows us to assess not only the effectiveness of the measures adopted in the directive but also the persistence of the discrimination phenomenon in the area in question. the fundamental problem for which we have not found an effective solution is the lack of awareness of the existence of discrimination, both on the part of the victims and on the part of the discriminators. so there is a huge difficulty in combating this phenomenon and its persistence. therefore, specific action by the union, the member states and the social partners is necessary to raise awareness of discriminatory behaviour and practices in employment. raising awareness will eliminate many pathological situations at relatively low cost. there is another reason why this seems justified: in recent months, we have seen a growing wave of hatred in the union, not only against muslims but also against citizens of other member states. the rise of nationalism and xenophobia has led not only to discrimination against workers within the single market, but also to the brutal assaults and beatings that poles in the uk have recently experienced. it is therefore urgent that action be taken to stem the tide. the conclusions of the european parliament on the application of the equal treatment directive are therefore necessary, which is why i voted in favour of mrs weber's report.
in writing. ‒ non-discrimination and respect for human rights are among the fundamental values on which the eu is founded. the union's objective is to strive to combat all practices of discrimination based on sex, age, religion, race, colour or descent. although many countries have incorporated the prohibition of discrimination into their legal systems, the law is still not fully applied. the labour market is one area where discrimination occurs. this is illustrated, for example, by the fact that women are more affected by unemployment than men. it's mostly pregnant women and mothers. this also applies to older people, who have a very high unemployment rate and can contribute their experience and knowledge to companies. to tackle this problem, we must work towards the elimination of all forms of discrimination, not just those in the labour market. existing law should be applied consistently and the enforcement of rights should be facilitated by providing for free legal aid and simplifying procedures. we should also develop programmes to facilitate adaptation to changing work environments.
in writing. ‒ this implementation report addresses the challenges of implementing the employment equality directive adopted 15 years ago, with particular attention to horizontal aspects, sexual orientation, religion and belief, age and disability. very little data on equality remains available, as the directive does not impose an obligation on member states to collect such data. the general nature of the report is to be welcomed, since its aim is only to give an overview of the current situation and to encourage member states to implement the provisions of the directive more fully. there are several elements in it that may be troubling, such as references to the proposed anti-discrimination directive, the maternity leave directive and lgbti. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment in employment and occupation is a prerequisite for the development of the eu economies. there is no doubt that despite the enormous progress made, women, disabled people and minorities are still treated worse by employers than men. moreover, unfortunately, in many areas, they still face problems, barriers and clear inequalities. this is reflected in particular in the different pay levels for men and women for the same work. in addition, the most discriminated social groups in the area of employment are jews, sikhs and muslims (especially women). religious beliefs should not have any influence on the assessment of the quality of the work of an employee or on the perception of the employee as capable or unable to perform his duties. the report presented touches on many issues that are crucial to achieving equality in employment and work, but the rapporteur has gone beyond the community's powers in the text she has prepared. the call on the european commission to submit urgently a new draft directive on maternity leave and to strengthen the rules on paternity leave cannot be implemented, as family policy is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states. it should also be stressed that no proposals should impose disproportionate burdens on employers or service providers, as weakening them will have a negative impact on the labour market, with the main detriment being for workers.
in writing. ‒ the search for appropriate legislative solutions on equal treatment in the labour market is an important objective of the eu's common policy. however, the report addresses issues of worldview that are contrary to the traditions, culture, social and legal order of certain member states. the aspects of non-discrimination on grounds of age, sex and disability are fully acceptable, but the other provisions on the recognition of partnership or parental rights should be treated with a certain degree of reservation, so that these measures are not imposed against the will of the member states. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ despite cultural progress and the efforts of society and its institutions to reduce discrimination, we still cannot speak of equal treatment, in the case of this report, in the area of employment and work. there are still significant disparities between women's and men's pay and pensions. it is not just sex that is a differentiating factor the report also deals with inequalities due to religious beliefs, disability or age. it is our duty to eliminate all discriminatory practices through institutional action and to identify desirable solutions. however, this important report contains provisions which interfere with the competences of the eu member states, and i therefore abstained.
madam president! the european globalisation adjustment fund aims not so much to help workers who are victims of this process, but above all to support sustainable employment in areas affected by the effects of economic change. the first years of the fund's operation have demonstrated very clearly the need for flexibility and rapid response to emerging difficulties, both on the part of the member states and the union institutions. the period under review was marked by a continuous evolution of the fund's operating principles and its adaptation to emerging challenges. it therefore seems to be a very useful instrument to support companies facing difficulties due to globalisation and the economic crisis. however, changes would be necessary to ensure coordination between the fund and the activities undertaken under the european social fund and the european regional development fund. this would make the interventions more effective and avoid unnecessary costs. however, the european globalisation adjustment fund cannot replace the responsible restructuring policy of the member states. it is only meant to provide support in emergency situations, not to be a form of escape from difficult decisions. so far, the 130 companies supported have provided examples of both effective and ineffective measures. it is clear that there are situations where the fund has not fulfilled its role, mainly due to the poor preparation of the action plans. it would be good to learn from these failures so as not to make the same mistakes in the future. that is the thinking behind the report, and i therefore support it with all my responsibility in voting today.
madam president! i just wanted to thank you very much for allowing and agreeing to give us full statements beyond the time limit that we have. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the egf has undergone a number of changes since 2006. these include a reduction in the intervention criteria from 1000 exemptions to 500 exemptions. this means that the egf is more accessible to regions and smaller member states. there have been proposals to further reduce the number of exemptions, which have been met with strong opposition. the intervention period was extended from 12 to 24 months. the egf is an exceptional fund and is outside the multiannual financial framework. a reserve has been created from which annual resources for the fund can be drawn. the annual appropriation for the egf in the eu budget has been reduced from eur 500 million per year in 2007 to eur 150 million in the current regulation. the average value of the appropriations allocated over 8 years (2007-2014) was eur 70 million per year. the co-financing rate was initially 50%, then increased to 65% in 2009-2011, reduced again to 50% in 2012-2013 and increased to 60% in the 2013 regulation for 2014-2020. eligible actions include personalised training to enable the acquisition of new skills and the change of skills, job search assistance, mentoring, entrepreneurship promotion, self-employment, business start-up and employee take-over assistance, and allowances for transfer costs, maintenance costs or training allowances. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the egf is a key instrument to mitigate the negative effects of mass redundancies, globalisation, labour market and trade changes. support should continue for those seeking re-employment, re-qualification and adaptation to the labour supply. good reporting should be ensured to continuously monitor the progress of member states receiving assistance from the fund in order to be able to match funding to the sectors most in need. i voted in favour of the motion.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to start by supporting what president costa said. we are at this place and time, but let us get down to business. the aim of the convention is to prevent, detect and combat match-fixing and the manipulation of sports competitions. it calls on governments across europe to take measures to prevent conflicts of interest between sports betting operators and sports organisers and to encourage sports betting regulators to step up the fight against fraud and illegal betting. we appreciate the european commission's involvement in the negotiation process and its proposal for the european union to sign the convention. unfortunately, its entry into force has now been delayed. this is a very bad sign, especially since there is widespread support from member states for the early entry into force of the convention. some of the countries are already ready to ratify it, but they cannot do so because of procedural issues within the union and the political opposition of one member state, which the president has already mentioned. for over four years, the european commission has played a leading role in the preparation and negotiation of this agreement. the time is therefore now for political steps and decisions to be taken to break the deadlock and bring this convention into force. the fixing of sports results is a serious threat, a disease that destroys the integrity of sports, seriously undermines the values and the trust of fans in their favorite teams and clubs, and it's a problem that affects many sports today, although in most cases, the negative phenomenon is specifically in sports like cricket, football, and, as mentioned here, tennis. the european parliament has repeatedly underlined its commitment to combating match-fixing in sports in its resolutions on online gambling (2009 and 2011), match-fixing and corruption in sport (2013) and in its resolutions on corruption cases in organisations such as fifa in 2015. in particular, parliament stressed that the online gambling market 'is not like any other market because of the risks it poses to consumer protection and the fight against organised crime'. therefore, we have repeatedly called on sports organisations to adopt a zero tolerance policy for corruption and to establish a 'common definition of corruption or sports fraud'. the council of europe convention on the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions is of key importance in combating these problems, and parliament will of course support it.
mr. chairman, please! in the case of international sports organisations and the organisation of major sporting events, we also find events and situations where the organisation of sporting events as one of the conditions for the organisation of events in a given country or the awarding of a prize to a given country requires a specific change in the domestic law of that country, so that the law of that country becomes a commodity, one of the commodities that is offered. the conditions under which such an organisation can operate in a given country are changed, and the financial rules are also changed, sometimes with undue financial advantages. i would therefore like to raise this issue and ask you to consider whether the european commission could monitor such situations so that such unjustified dumping does not occur by, on the one hand, imposing certain privileges on the host countries of sporting events and, on the other hand, by offering such dumping conditions.
on behalf of the ecr group. i request that the item concerning the so-called women's rights in poland be deleted. first, the intervention of the eu institutions in this matter is inadmissible on the basis of article 5 (1) and (2) of the treaty on european union, which states that 'any competences not conferred on the union in the treaties shall be conferred on the member states'. there is nothing in the treaties to give the union competence in matters of abortion. secondly, this interpretation was confirmed by the court of justice of the european union in the case 150/90 society for the protection of the unborn children v. grogan and that judgment remains valid. thirdly, the interference of the eu institutions in the abortion issue is also not justified by the charter of fundamental rights, where article 51 (2) reads: 'this charter does not establish new competences or tasks of the union, nor does it alter the competences and tasks laid down in the treaties'. in conclusion, any interference by the european parliament in the matter in question is clearly unlawful.
mr. chairman, please! the subject of this debate is not within the competence of the european parliament. why would you do that? because worldview is a national issue. mr. chairman, the subject of this discussion would be false, and i warn you against it. because if we are going to talk about women's rights in poland, you should say that poland has the lowest gender pay gap in the oecd, that poland is the second oecd country with the highest percentage of female investors, that poland ranks fourth among oecd countries in terms of equal treatment of women in the workplace. and finally, that the fundamental rights agency's research shows that poland is the country with the lowest rate of physical and sexual violence. ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament should be dealing today with the problems facing a united europe: the security crisis, the economic crisis, the disintegration of europe before our eyes. i invite you to beautiful poland, where polish women live, study, work, raise families. see what poland really looks like. lean over this. we do not want to talk about abortion, because it is a matter for the member states.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to ask why you did not give me a vote, because i wanted to know what the real meaning of the vote we just had was. the subject is worded in an extremely enigmatic way. the colleagues who supported the repeal of this clause assumed that it was a matter of the right to life. it is also clear from what mrs björk said. and we have recently discussed the subject of constitutional democracy in poland, and i want us all to be aware that the polish constitutional court on 28 may 1997 issued a ruling that is still valid today, stating clearly that the foundation of a democratic state of law is the right to life. i would like to know what the european parliament's position is: do you want to abolish democracy in constitutional poland or do you really want to talk about the constitutional tribunal, because i still do not know what the subject of this debate is, and the president has actually prevented me from obtaining information about what it is about.
mr president, i would like to enquire about the equal treatment of member states within the eu, because in virtually every eu member state there is a popular movement requesting consideration of certain legislative measures. for example, in finland, one such request with 60 000 signatures, on issues relating to the right to abortion, was also deliberated upon in the parliament, yet we did not discuss that issue. why is this one so? the current legislative measures are popular, societal initiatives, not governmental ones. why are we considering it during this session?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to congratulate mr norbert neuser on this difficult report on the future of the acp-eu relationship. as the experience of recent years has shown, the cotonou agreement has led to positive results in the acp-eu cooperation so far. however, their size is still not satisfactory. the need for further cooperation, and even for its strengthening, especially in the economic field, is obvious. the acp countries are still 80% of the least developed countries. the above and the current economic situation indicate that a change of formula in relations between the acp states and the european union is needed. the eu's engagement should increasingly be about developing relationships that are more partnership-based. economic agreements and investments should play a key role in further development, which will also contribute to the greater empowerment of acp countries. trade is one of the three main pillars of the cotonou agreement, which affects the growth of investment, the reduction of unemployment and, of course, the fight against poverty. therefore, strengthening it is essential for the further growth and economic development of these countries. meanwhile, eu imports from west africa alone fell from over 38 billion in 2013 to just over 27 billion in 2015. at the same time, the eu remains the acp's main trading partner, with over 5% of imports and exports across the eu. at the same time, the pursuit of sustainable development and the fight against poverty must be combined with progress towards democracy and respect for human rights.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the expiring partnership agreement between the union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states has not delivered the expected results when compared with other union partnerships. the achievements in the fight against poverty, the rule of law and integration into the world economy are still too few to give a good assessment of the legacy of the agreement at this stage. i am particularly concerned that the dialogue on the promotion of human rights is not well developed and that there are significant differences of interpretation between some countries, leading to disputes and growing mistrust on the part of the acp states. the imposition of eu solutions, the threats to withhold financial support are often interpreted by our partners as a manifestation of paternalism and even neo-colonialism. unfortunately, this does not help to build a real partnership, on the contrary, it strengthens the donor-beneficiary relationship, which the union must start to move away from in order to build a partnership of equal actors based on common objectives: responsibility, equal rights and cost-sharing. i sincerely hope that when we plan the direction and principles of our cooperation, we will take into account the differences of interests and the changes that have taken place in the world economy, in politics and within both groups. let's take a closer look at what we've done so far.
mr. chairman, please! we have had 40 years of cooperation, and we have only four years to prepare the new conditions, the new agreements, the new rules for the implementation of cooperation between the member states of the european union and the 78 acp states. so we have to learn from the past, and the lesson is that we haven't always achieved our goals in the best way. so, to ensure that the years ahead of cooperation - with nothing to hide - and the concept of aid are not wasted, we need to take action that is more effective. there is no doubt that the focus must be on increasing investment, not just trade and aid. the fish rule needs to be replaced by the fishing rule. unfortunately, we are living in a time that is dangerous for this kind of agreement, because we are living in a time when forces are rising against international trade agreements, and this is one of the very important elements of this agreement. this is a process that is dangerous for developing countries, and we also have to take this into account when we want to help these countries.
in writing. the european union, if it is to act for sustainable development and promote democracy in the world, must consider how to organise its relations with the acp countries not only for the next few years but also beyond 2020. the cotonou agreement, which has governed these relations so far, has proved to be an inadequate instrument in this respect. i believe that the future partnership, if it is to be effective, must break with the donor/recipient mentality, taking account above all of the real needs of the acp states. it must therefore rely more than ever on the involvement of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector in the acp countries. the european commission's extensive public consultation with citizens and civil society organisations around the world was a good step in this direction. i also believe that, in order to avoid duplication of tasks by the eu, the economic partnership agreements should be kept in mind, which as an important forum for regional cooperation should remain the cornerstone of the future partnership.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! in the last few days, i've been to two more countries in the middle east: lebanon and jordan. i visited refugee camps there, just like i did a few months ago when i was in iraq. however, what i wanted to emphasize is that the situation of syrian children and youth in lebanon is particularly difficult. my colleague from the ppe also spoke about the palestinian refugees, but they have their own government, for example, they have their own police force and it is a community that has been functioning in lebanon for several decades. the education rate of palestinian children is much higher than that of syrian children and youth. of course, we in this room may differ on many issues when it comes to immigrants, the flow of immigrants into europe, the distribution of immigrants. but i think we're all in this together, that we have to, that it's worth and we have to invest in the refugees who live there, and in their education. the more educated refugee children are, the less likely they are to take the path of terrorism, which, while it is certainly a temptation for educated people, is very common among the uneducated.
mr. chairman, please! lebanon, like jordan, is where the refugees are, the people who have fled the war and are waiting in a neighboring country for it to end. they really need a home first, which is a room, because a room is a home. let's all think about what we've done to end this unnecessary war, but while it's going on, we need to help them out there. and poland is a country that not only talks, but simply helps. we have increased the funds two months ago for the refugee relief in lebanon, for the maintenance of schools, for the ngos that are helping people there, but first of all, these people need to go home. i listen with great concern to the opinions of those in this room, we dream: end of war, punishment, prosecution of those responsible and so on. how many people will survive this unconditional surrender? this war has really been going on for years and years.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague if she does not notice that the russian intervention, which is playing a very destructive role in syria, is much shorter than this war. we are not really thinking about how to continue this war, but how to bring peace there as soon as possible, because this is the only salvation for these children and the only chance to return home for these hundreds of thousands of refugees who are in jordan and in lebanon, and the only chance to make the pretext disappear for continuing the wave of immigration to europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is good to see and to hear that there is, across all parties, a common understanding that we have to be extremely focused and committed to guaranteeing education for every child. it is also important to take care that those who are not yet in school have the opportunity to attend school. it is impossible, and i think there is a moral obligation, not to lose any generation, not to lose any child and to give everybody an opportunity to be educated. i think we are all impatient and we are all concerned because still, i agree, not every child is going to school. there are a lot of reasons for that and we should not underestimate that many families push, urge, force their children to work, to contribute to the family’s financial support and income. there are also reasons, as it was already said by some colleagues, because of the lack of having a residency status. this is why one of the key areas we have addressed in our negotiations with the lebanese government concerning an eu compact agreement is that this has to be resolved in order to guarantee, including from a legal perspective, the possibility to enrol in schools. there is also some progress, i have to admit. there is now a decision by the lebanese government to apply the new lebanese curriculum. there were some discussions in the past whether it should be the syrian or the lebanese curriculum, but there is now a decision, and i think it is a good decision to apply the lebanese curriculum which allows also that lebanese teachers can teach syrian kids. there should also be an opportunity for syrian teachers who are refugees to get a work permit to teach syrian kids, and this is also something we have addressed in our negotiations concerning the compact. there was also an issue about the money. may i say that in 2016, as far as the expected number of school children being de facto in school is concerned, this is being financed. there is an overall budget of eur 191 million. out of that, eur 190 million is provided by the european union and its member states, with more than 60% of this budget being provided by the european union. primarily the financing is provided via unicef, but we are also trying to find an agreement with the lebanese government directly. this also depends a little bit on the very complicated political situation inside lebanon. as there is no president elected, with all the consequences of that, it is difficult to have an agreement with the lebanese government, and therefore we have decided, in order not to waste time and resources, to channel most of the money via unicef. there is one element i would like to highlight, and i think this is something we should not forget. of course it is important to provide elementary and secondary school education, but it is equally important to offer afterwards children in the region vocational education. therefore, also the aim of this new compact is to support the lebanese economy to offer jobs, to offer economic business opportunities and to give young people the opportunity to get an apprenticeship, as an example. so while this is about investment in young people, it is not only an investment in their basic education, but equally important is to have an investment further on in specific training and education to become a skilled member of the workforce. i think this is something which should be our joint focus in the future, of course still taking care about the elementary and secondary school education. once again, i think we should be determined to provide this additional education not only in lebanon but also, of course, in jordan, in turkey. wherever syrian refugee children are, we have to support them and their parents.
in writing. our priority in helping refugee children, in addition to ensuring their safety and access to food and medical care, should be universal access to free education. educating your children is the best investment in your future. it is a long-term investment and the only way we can educate the next generation in the spirit of peace, tolerance and intercultural understanding. educating refugee children is also an opportunity for them to return to the normalcy and partial stability they enjoyed before the war. school gives a sense of security and can help you to cope with difficult experiences. education also provides young people with the knowledge and skills that will help them to adapt to new situations and to develop further. despite the unquestionable added value of education for the lives of future generations of migrants, it remains one of the most underfunded areas of assistance. we can't let that happen! i thank the commission for proposing a new humanitarian aid package for educational projects for children in crisis areas. i look forward to its swift and effective implementation. every child deserves the chance for a better life that education can provide.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on development and its chair, ms linda mcavan, for putting nutrition high on the development agenda in line with our commitment to the un 2030 agenda and sustainable development goals. the resolution on malnutrition proposed by the committee is, in our view, an important step forward. since 2012, the commission has emerged as a world leader in the nutrition arena. this leadership is backed by a robust policy framework addressing both stunting and wasting. over the last three years, we have observed a trend pointing towards the decrease of stunting. our first progress report on the european commission’s nutrition action plan shows that we are well on track to reach the commitment of reducing the number of stunted children under the age of five by seven million by 2025. our further actions on nutrition and food security should be guided by the approach that would seek to strike the right balance between our preferred nutrition-sensitive interventions that address the multiple nature of undernutrition and malnutrition causes, including food insecurity, health, sanitation, social safety nets and inequalities, and the needed nutrition—specific interventions. this balance is to be better assessed in the programming exercise with partner countries and other donors. this may also include a further look into our development instruments in 2017. we have taken due note of parliament’s request to increase the commission’s funding for nutrition-specific actions. in this context, the commission has put forward the following approach: we should maximise the synergies and complementarities of our development and humanitarian responses to nutrition and food security needs, having in mind that humanitarian responses are, in principle, nutrition-specific. we will promote programming coordination with other donors, who can focus on nutrition-specific interventions, thus complementing the commission’s focus on nutrition-sensitive issues. we shall also advocate at global level, especially through the scaling up nutrition (sun) movement, to increase investment in nutrition, including nutrition-specific investments by both donors and developing countries. the first results of this three-pronged approach are encouraging, notably in rwanda, ethiopia, niger, mali, bangladesh, laos and guatemala. we support partner countries in developing and implementing their own true multi—sectoral nutrition action plans, which combine nutrition-specific and nutrition-sensitive interventions. this also allows donors to align their support to national priorities and coordinate the division of nutrition efforts. the commission has gained a strong record and evidence in supporting nutrition, mainly through the agriculture, education, water or health sectors. however, the commission is exploring other areas, such as social safety nets, which have proved to be successful in improving nutrition – particularly in mali. in this context, the commission and the club du sahel are organising a major event on social protection for nutrition in abuja in december. the objective will be to further increase investments and to reduce undernutrition faster, while putting women, children, and small farmers at the centre of nutrition actions. at the global level, the commission will continue advocating further investment in nutrition, notably through the scaling up nutrition movement. we should also explore with the sun movement the opportunity to organise a pledging event for nutrition in the coming years.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: according to the united nations, as mr guerrero has already mentioned, 795 million people, or 1 in 10 people, are currently undernourished. by 2050, that number is projected to rise to 2 billion. in the light of the continuously increasing population and the simultaneously high percentage of people who suffer from intentional and intentional hunger, it is necessary to support in particular the agricultural sector and to improve its efficiency. the agricultural sector is not only the world's food provider, but also the world's largest employer (supporting the livelihoods of over 40% of the world's population). combating poverty and hunger and promoting this sector of the economy should be the overriding objective of the european union, namely the achievement of the second item of the sustainable development goals. hunger has particularly negative consequences for children, and the effects are felt not only at the level of individuals but also at the level of entire societies, causing stunted personal development and further negative social consequences. estimates for 2016 indicate that in ethiopia alone, the number of people who will be affected by hunger will increase from 10 million to 18 million, and that is already about 6 million children. action to address these challenges also means helping to tackle other threats, ranging from social to migration. i hope that in the light of the above, you will answer the questions of the committee on development and indicate the direction of further action to improve the situation in question.
mr. chairman, please! in europe today, especially in the western part of the continent, the anti-globalization movement is growing and gaining strength. i want to talk about this at this point because it's incredibly important. the globalization today is the globalization of democracy. globalization today is a globalization of law, a globalization of equality. the modern globalization of the 21st century is the globalization of education. this is the globalization of civil society. after all, in today's world, globalism is about spreading prosperity around the world. all those who speak out in europe against globalisation, so de facto - i understand - without being aware of it - are in favour of the spread of poverty, of the perpetuation of poverty. a world where states only closed themselves within their borders, where communities only acted within their treaties, and didn't care about other states, other people, would be a world dominated by poverty. this process of globalisation that we are seeing today, and which is developing in a positive way, is in service of the ideals that we are talking about here today. and i hope that those who influence public life in europe and around the world understand this. we will work to reduce poverty in the world through globalization.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to remind you that according to fao figures from just a few years ago, world food production should increase by at least 75% by 2030, which means that agriculture and food production should be under the special protection of individual countries and their associations, such as the european union, which has been funding the common agricultural policy for almost 50 years. the polish delegation to the eec group, on whose behalf i am speaking, naturally wants to support most of the provisions of the european parliament's resolution on food and food security, including in particular support for small farmers, combating the phenomenon of land grabbing in developing countries or opposing the so-called privatisation of seeds, which directly threatens the food sovereignty of individual countries. however, i would like to remind you that the reforms of the common agricultural policy carried out by the european union itself are very often aimed at reducing agricultural production in europe. the vast sums of money, in the billions of euros, are being used to finance programmes to reduce production, for example of sugar and, more recently, milk, which is contrary to food security in europe and the world.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 october 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. food security, alongside energy and defence security, is the most important global challenge facing the world today. this is mainly due to the continuously growing population, which is expected to increase to 8.5 billion by 2030, and the fao (food and agriculture organization) forecasts that the demand for food will increase by the world's population will be the main problem, and because of this, we are seeing a sharp increase in land grabbing in developing countries and in developing countries. i call on the commission to take concrete measures to prevent the appropriation of agricultural land and to develop an action plan to combat the mass land purchase and to ensure the effective implementation of the fao guidelines within the framework of the e ownership.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, bernad lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, czeslaw adam ocherski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, and jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on combating illegal logging, deforestation and forest degradation eu action programme (o-000121/2016 - brs-08-0720/2016) (2016/2428(p)).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the problem of illegal exploitation of forest resources and the risks that such activities entail are not only environmental but also economic and social. the misuse of forests causes considerable damage not only to the natural environment. in addition to deforestation, biodiversity loss and increased greenhouse gas emissions, illegal logging contributes to conflict between indigenous and local communities, human rights violations and corruption. the proceeds from these activities are often used to finance armed conflicts, contributing to increasing poverty. in africa, the largest losses in the forest sector in recent years have been recorded in nigeria, tanzania, zimbabwe, the democratic republic of congo. the authorities of some of these countries use so-called controlled deforestation to acquire these lands for cultivation. addressing negative trends, including illegal logging, requires close cooperation with developing countries where the use and trade of wood is important to the economy. support is needed for the exchange of good practice and appropriate forest policy reforms. the flegt action plan to increase the capacity of developing countries to control illegal logging while limiting trade in illegal timber products between these countries and the european union is therefore a good approach. however, additional resources should be allocated to meet the challenges of its implementation and monitoring.
mr. chairman, please! i am very sorry, but i will be speaking on a very similar subject - not so much about hungary as about the european parliament, because it surprises me that in this parliament i hear words about democracy all the time, whereas when something is being done democratically in hungary, because in fact the majority - ninety-eight percent of those who voted are right - and therefore this percentage is much higher than the percentage who want to vote for mrs clinton in america, then the union wants to have a discussion about the fact that it is concerned about the situation in hungary. well, i wanted to point out that if you are a democrat - i am not a democrat - but if you are a democrat, you have to accept that most hungarians want something. and i am only glad that the european union does not yet have an army, because if the european union had an army, it would certainly have been helping the hungarian people, just as the soviet army, as mr tőkés remembers, was helping the hungarian people in 1956.
mr. chairman, please! as i return to speak for the first time, i wanted to thank you for the concern that the european parliament has shown for poland over the past year by introducing debates on the rule of law and women's rights. it is a pity that similar help was not offered during the previous governments, when many areas of life were destroyed, causing the emigration of millions of my countrymen - mostly young, educated and entrepreneurial. it's easy to destroy, but it's harder to rebuild, which is what this government is trying to do. the scale of the destruction and the depth of the destruction in one only moral aspect could be seen in poland today when black monday was organized. there have been marches and strikes by the black-clad supporters of the civilization of death, who instead of mourning the millions killed in the majesty of the right of the unborn, in total shamelessness continue to fight for the barbaric right to kill the unborn in the wombs of their mothers.
mr. chairman, please! i'm gonna change the subject a little bit. well, a few days ago there were commemorations of the 75th anniversary of the babyn yar massacre near kiev, where between 100,000 and 150,000 people were killed, including at least 30,000 jews. in addition to jews, the main victims of the crime, poles, roma, partisans, soviet soldiers and representatives of the ukrainian elite, as well as members of ukrainian nationalist organizations, were also killed there. the later history of baby spring is instructive, the history of attempts to falsify the past. we are not free from such tendencies today. in the light of the complexities of history, out of respect for the victims, we should clearly say who, what state, what nation organized into that state, was the perpetrator of this crime. we should remember what the ideology was, what the motives were for this crime. we should not be accepting eugenics in any form. the current neo-stalinist manner of labeling all political rivals on the right as fascists is also a sign of disrespect for the victims and a desire to falsify the past.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the member said that our decisions cannot be limited to the minimum. however, the treaty on this subject (article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union) states that it is precisely in this case that we are to confine ourselves to establishing minimum conditions. it's the treaties that encourage us to save. i'd like you to explain your position on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! our decisions on this matter should be rational and economical. we have repeatedly declared austerity legislation. i was prepared to support the directive as presented by the european commission, because it was absolutely justified. i would remind you that in its original form the legal aid directive was concerned primarily with the first stage of proceedings, when the suspect may not yet have the opportunity to use a lawyer and a european arrest warrant, but then, unfortunately, this regulation was extended without any basis, and without the treaty basis i mentioned a few minutes ago. i would like to recall that the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the establishment of minimum standards only, with a view to good police cooperation, judicial cooperation and mutual recognition of judgments. however, it does not provide a basis for the development of new general rules on criminal procedure. i think we should be economical and rational, and above all show greater confidence in the member states. the european union can emerge from the crisis if we restore trust between the european institutions and the member states.
madam president! i would like to point out that the americans, also in poland, used water strangulation as torture, and a ban on water exports should also be introduced. in soviet countries, they used to stick matches and toothpicks under the fingernails. the match is gone, but the export ban on toothpicks should be enforced. and now, seriously, i've never seen so much stupidity in this house. i understand that the people who did this are decent people, but the ratio of stupidity to decency can't go beyond certain limits. if anyone were to read the european parliament's resolution, we would be the subject of satire all over the world. fortunately, no one reads it, and besides, i think the european union must be destroyed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. it is very important to show the citizens of the european union that the environment and climate change are as important to us as the economy. implementation of the paris agreement will also play an important role in limiting the rise in global average temperature to below 2°c pre-industrial levels. i therefore voted in favour because i believe that the formal entry into force of the paris agreement will bring the expected benefits and should therefore be a priority for all member states of the union.
in writing. - today we ratified the paris climate agreement. i too voted in favour of this resolution, although i do not think that this opens up any way of taking the wrong approach to the eu ets for some member states. the energy sector in poland, but also in other member states, is based on coal. this means that these countries' economies must be emitting more carbon. i have a feeling that our eu climate targets will be met largely at the expense of the industries of these countries. the mechanisms of this artificial quasi-market in co2 emissions, the eu ets, contain a huge speculative potential which, in my view, will not result in what we have committed ourselves to when we ratified the climate agreement. it doesn't sound good.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement, signed by the 28 eu member states in new york in april 2016, underlines the importance of action to combat climate change and clearly sets the goal of achieving a 'climate-neutral world economy'. among its key provisions was the idea of limiting global warming to below 2°c compared to the pre-industrial era (targeted at 1.5°c), and a clear message that a shift away from the use of scarce natural resources such as fossil fuels towards clean renewable energy was needed. all countries have also committed to take mitigation measures that will enable them to meet their stated targets (the eu has committed to reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030). they will also meet every five years to report on progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in total, including the european community countries, 195 countries have signed and ratified the agreement, which is set to enter into force if ratified by at least 55 signatories, responsible for at least 55% of global emissions. the european union is playing a leading role in the international arena in combating climate change, and in the document adopted today we call for the agreement to be ratified as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ a swift decision by the eu to ratify the paris agreement under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) will send a strong signal and highlight the primary role of the eu and its member states, as well as their efforts to prevent climate change at international level. implementation of the paris agreement will play a key role in global efforts to combat climate change and limit the rise in global average temperature to below 2°c pre-industrial levels. the formal entry into force of the paris agreement is a key priority for the eu. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2016, the european parliament approved the ratification of the paris agreement by the eu. this is a very important, first ever binding climate agreement. europe has built a front for ambitious environmental and climate goals, as president juncker also stressed in his speech. the eu, which has been the main architect of the agreement, has also signed it, symbolically crossing the threshold of at least 55 parties, representing at least 55% of global emissions, to allow it to enter into force. however, it should be emphasised that reduction efforts and the promotion of climate-friendly solutions must be pursued without prejudice to development and innovation, and must take into account in detail the specific nature of different sectors (e.g. energy, transport, agriculture). it is worth noting that agriculture and forestry have a special relationship with the climate and the environment, as they are the only ones that, in addition to emitting greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, also have a huge potential to absorb and store compounds that affect climate warming.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is the summation of global efforts to combat climate change and limit the rise in global average temperatures. it is part of the eu's sustainable development policy, which must reconcile economic growth with the need to preserve the environment for future generations. the member states of the european union played a significant role in the negotiation of this agreement. a swift decision to ratify will underline the primary role of member states in driving action at international level to prevent climate change. the european union's formal consent to be bound by the convention will mark the completion of the ratification threshold and thus the entry into force of the paris agreement as early as november this year. for the above reasons, i support this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the proposal because i believe that there should always be a willingness among member states to help, especially in the case of natural disasters. the damage and the earthquake's aftermath far exceeded the financial capacity of the ionian islands. the eu solidarity fund (eusf) aims to provide financial assistance to eligible member states affected by large-scale natural disasters or exceptional regional disasters. in the event of an earthquake that has struck the ionian islands, we cannot remain indifferent, we must show solidarity, especially since there is a special fund for such situations. hence my decision to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was set up in 2002 to provide financial assistance to eligible member states affected by large-scale natural disasters or exceptional regional disasters. the commission proposes to use eur 1 651 834 from this fund to provide assistance to greece following the series of earthquakes that struck the region of the ionian islands on 17 november 2015. the damage caused by the earthquake amounted to 2,1% of the islands' gdp and thus exceeded the threshold required to qualify for the 'regional disaster' measure. the eusf will cover 2,5% of the total direct damage caused by the earthquake. the full amount of eur 1 651 834 may be covered by advances already entered in the 2016 budget, with a sufficient amount remaining in the budget for new requests for the mobilisation of eusf funds later in the year. the ionian islands region was hit by a natural disaster that caused enormous damage. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund is an important instrument to support member states affected by a natural disaster on a large and regional scale. the earthquake in the ionian islands is one of them, so it's important to provide funding and help rebuild. greece has fulfilled all the necessary technical requirements to apply for support from the solidarity fund. solidarity in difficult times is a characteristic of the european communities, which is why i voted in favour of aid to greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of finland's request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that this is the kind of situation in which the fund should be used. the request by finland is the result of the dismissal of 2161 employees from microsoft, mainly due to the decline in sales of mobile phones with microsoft software. these workers cannot be left without help, and every step must be taken to improve their situation on the labour market. for these reasons, i voted in favour, because i am convinced that finland will use the funds from this fund to increase employment and support economic growth.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request from finland egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in microsoft and its eight downstream suppliers and manufacturers in finland. the microsoft crash was caused by the collapse of nokia, which used microsoft tools and no longer dominated the mobile phone market. in my view, therefore, appropriate instruments should be created to help the many workers made redundant to find their way back into the labour market as it currently exists.
in writing. ‒ finland is applying for egf support following the redundancies of 2161 employees at microsoft and eight of its suppliers and downstream manufacturers. the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft is its declining market share of phones running microsoft windows. the measures co-financed by the egf will help 1441 workers by providing them with career coaching and individual counselling, employment and entrepreneurship services, a range of vocational training, services for new entrepreneurs and grants for start-up companies, employee recruitment incentives, training allowances and relocation allowances. the total estimated cost of the package is eur 8,9 million, of which the egf will provide eur 5,3 million. i support the introduction of policies that promote growth and jobs. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the problems of nokia, once the leader in the mobile phone industry, began with the expansion of apple and samsung smartphones. both companies quickly gained a dominant position in the market, leaving the finnish company far behind. microsoft's takeover of the finnish company's mobile business and patents in 2013 was supposed to be a lifeline. unfortunately, the redmond-based smartphone giant has not been doing so well on its own. the market share of phones running microsoft windows fell from over 50% in 2009 to 0,6% in the second quarter of 2016. in 2014, microsoft announced plans to reduce its overall workforce by up to 18 000 in 2015, including 1 100 in finland, and in 2015 it announced plans to restructure its phone division, expecting to lose 2 300 jobs in finland. the government in helsinki plans to implement six types of measures for the benefit of the redundant workers concerned by the request: coaching and other preparatory measures, employment and entrepreneurship services, vocational training, salary bonuses, start-up grants, travel, accommodation and relocation allowances. the main purpose of these is to adapt workers to the future labour market and to develop the skills they need. that's why i decided to support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to counter the negative effects of mass redundancies, which are the repercussions of global changes in the labour market and trade. finland is applying for the use of the fund to support the more than 2000 microsoft employees made redundant. the main reason for the mass redundancies in the company is the declining share of the company in the global market. the measures co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund will help a large group of over 1 400 employees, including through counselling and vocational training. they will also create an incentive for employers to hire workers. policies that promote growth and jobs deserve support. however, i am generally sceptical that the european globalisation adjustment fund mechanism is really a tool that can effectively help displaced workers to integrate into the labour market. i believe that each situation requires individual and careful evaluation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of sweden's request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund, as it is clear that the purpose of the fund is to help in such cases. the request by sweden is the result of the dismissal of 1556 employees by ericsson. these releases are caused by the partial or total closure of production lines. i am of course of the opinion that in such a situation every effort should be made to support these people and help them to re-enter the labour market. i have always supported any action that would increase employment and growth, and that is why i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request from sweden egf/2016/002 se/ericsson). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the ericsson collapse was caused by a change in the production profile. the company is moving away from computer hardware and developing software-related products. therefore, it shifted a significant part of its production from europe to asia. the obvious consequence of this is a significant reduction in employment levels in europe. in my view, therefore, appropriate instruments should be created to help the many workers made redundant to find their way back into the labour market as it is today.
in writing. ‒ sweden applies for egf support following the redundancies of 1 556 workers at ericsson. the main reason for the redundancies at ericsson is the partial or total closure of production lines for wireless telecommunications equipment at various ericsson plants in sweden. the measures co-financed by the egf will help 918 workers by providing them with counselling and vocational guidance, protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures, education, training and jobseeker's allowances. the total estimated cost of the package is eur 6,5 million, of which the egf will provide eur 3,9 million. i support the introduction of policies that promote growth and jobs. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the ict industry is dominated by asian manufacturers, to whom production is shifted. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to ericsson was compatible with the internal market. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the request submitted this year by sweden concerns almost a thousand redundancies at ericsson (telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson). ericsson still employs workers in europe, but these are only people with very different qualifications than the previously dismissed workers, who had skills in the production and development of computer hardware. the main source of growth for the company is software development. it is therefore necessary to mobilise union aid for the retraining of workers made redundant in sweden.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to counter the negative effects of mass redundancies, which are the repercussions of global changes in the labour market and trade. sweden is applying for support from the fund following the redundancies of 1 556 employees at ericsson. the main reason for the redundancies is the partial or total closure of production lines for wireless telecommunications equipment at various plants throughout sweden. the measures co-financed by the egf will provide 918 workers with counselling, employment protection and support measures, and education and training allowances for jobseekers. policies that promote growth and jobs deserve support. however, i am generally sceptical that the european globalisation adjustment fund mechanism is really a tool that can effectively help displaced workers to integrate into the labour market. i believe that each situation requires individual and careful evaluation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, who is being prosecuted. the proceedings concern a meeting at which it was discussed whether it would be possible to take out a private insurance policy for all employees of the university of crete, of which mr grammatikakis was rector. mr giorgos grammatikakis himself has agreed to waive his immunity in order not to impede the prosecution. i therefore voted to waive mr grammatikakis' immunity, because i believe that every member of the european parliament should be a man of the law, setting an example for the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the greek prosecutor has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis in connection with proceedings in that country. the charges against the member concern the activities of the university of crete, which were initiated by a meeting of the university senate in 1996. giorgos grammatikakis was the rector of the university at the time, while the member of the european parliament has only been in office since 2014. it is clear from this that the proceedings before the referring court are not directly connected with the performance by mr grammatikakis of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the member himself also admitted that his immunity should be waived in order not to impede the course of the judicial proceedings. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the request for legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons subject to a warrant in european arrest warrant proceedings. my decision is based on the fact that, although the text put to the vote is the result of tripartite negotiations, i do not see the need to extend the scope of the directive. the division of legal aid into 'temporary' and 'ordinary' does not seem appropriate either. for these reasons, i voted against. i believe that the legislation currently in force is sufficient.
in writing. ‒ decisions at eu level should be made in a rational and cost-effective manner. the directive in its original draft formulated by the european commission pursued this objective. it provided for the harmonisation of national legal systems in order to guarantee legal aid to persons in the first stage of criminal proceedings, when they may be deprived of the effective possibility of having recourse to a lawyer, and in proceedings following a european arrest warrant. however, the legal solutions provided for in the directive as it stands go further and are not based on primary law. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides only for minimum protection, not for the establishment of universal criminal law. such a broad regulation does not serve to build the confidence of member states in the institutions of the european union. for these reasons, i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a regulation which prohibits trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this is a very important regulation to improve the sense of security among citizens. it specifies the items covered by this regulation and describes the exceptional procedure for those equipment and goods which, in addition to being liable to be used for illegal purposes, are also legally applicable. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1236/2005 prohibits the export and import of equipment and goods which are not intended for use other than for torture or the execution of capital punishment. they are listed in annex ii to that regulation. the same act requires that the export of equipment and goods which are suitable for the above purposes but which also have other legitimate uses be subject to special authorisations. such goods are assessed on an individual basis. in 2011, regulation 1236/2005 was amended to control the export of substances that can be used in lethal injections during execution. the tripartite text introduces a system of prior authorisation for the provision of brokering services and technical assistance in respect of goods listed in annex iii or iiia. the supply of intermediation services and technical assistance related to goods listed in annex ii shall be prohibited. it shall prohibit the transit of goods listed in annex ii and of goods listed in annexes iii and iiia. it shall prohibit the advertising and promotion of goods listed in annex ii. it allows member states to adopt or maintain additional national measures restricting certain ancillary services in respect of goods listed in annex ii. it shall set up a coordination group within which experts from the member states and the commission shall exchange information on administrative practices. it shall apply the urgency procedure with regard to annexes ii, iii, iiia and iiib and shall introduce a review clause. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu regulation of 2005 has previously regulated the prohibition on the sale and export of equipment which could be used for capital punishment, torture or inhuman and degrading punishment. but it did not address key issues, including the prohibition of the promotion and advertising of tools used to torture people. the new regulation will ban the promotion and advertising of goods that are clearly used for execution or torture, such as electric chairs, automatic infusion pumps used for poison injections, leg chains or spiked sticks. the ban will also apply to arms exhibitions and fairs organised within the territory of the european union. i believe that the european union should not in any way facilitate the practice of torture and the use of the death penalty by providing tools that can be used for this purpose. the document therefore rightly includes provisions prohibiting the movement of such goods through the eu, even if they are destined for third countries. moreover, the regulation properly addresses the issue of transporting objects that are designed for other purposes but may be used for torture. under new eu law, carriers will be obliged to stop transporting items if they know they could fall into the wrong hands.
in writing. ‒ export controls are not just a tool for external trade. it can also effectively promote the protection of human rights in those states which are recipients of goods and services potentially used for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the consistency of union export controls in this respect should be ensured, inter alia, by updating the list of tools which should be subject to such controls. regulation 1236/2005 on the prevention of torture also covers the export of equipment and goods which may be used for torture, although this is not their exclusive use. their export should be subject to special authorisations. the proposed amendments to the regulation also allow member states to adopt or maintain additional measures restricting goods-related ancillary services (e.g. advertising, transport, financial services). the regulation will undoubtedly strengthen the european union's responsible role in combating the death penalty and torture worldwide. i am in full support of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the current regulation entered into force on 30 july 2006. it was intended to prevent the supply of goods to end-users who could use equipment or goods originating in the eu area for torture or capital punishment. as ten years of experience have shown, such cases have unfortunately occurred. the main error was that the existing regulation, while restricting the sale of goods, did not block the transfer of technology which was then used by non-eu countries. i believe that technical assistance providers from companies based in the european union should not be able to profit from the marketing of technologies that could cause human suffering or death. i therefore support the draft new regulation which would prohibit any entity registered in eu countries from providing technical assistance if the equipment, goods or technology it sells could be used for torture or capital punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china, which concerns the exchange of information excluding personal data. it should be noted that china is currently a country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime. the agreement covers important issues such as: sharing expertise or the results of strategic analyses and advising and supporting on specific investigations. i voted for it because i support any action that aims to improve safety.
in writing. ‒ the strategic operational cooperation agreement between europol and china concerns the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. importantly, however, it excludes the exchange of personal data. this cooperation will therefore include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on investigative procedures and crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as advice and support in specific investigations. china is a major player in organised crime: facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, and cybercrime and money laundering. in addition, china is home to organised crime groups with significant influence in europe, which fully justifies the establishment of cooperation between europol and china. in my opinion, the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement with china is essential for the fight against organized crime. it will improve its effectiveness and contribute to the intensification of international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of an international agreement with a third country or an international organisation must be approved in advance by the eu council and the european parliament. the strategic cooperation agreement between europe and china concerns the exchange of strategic, operational, technical or classified information. the exchange of personal data is also involved in its termination. however, due to the strategic nature of the agreement, personal data will remain confidential and the information exchanged will relate to general situations, strategic analyses, crime prevention and investigative procedures. cooperation with china is particularly important as it is considered to be the origin of organised crime groups responsible for organising illegal migration, trafficking in drugs, weapons and live commodities, cybercrime, corruption and counterfeiting of money. and effective action against organised crime is particularly important in an era of increasing terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ china is an increasingly important country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, and cybercrime and money laundering. in addition, china is home to various powerful organized crime groups. the agreement between china and europol covers expertise, general situation reports, strategic analysis results, information on investigative procedures and crime prevention methods, participation in training, and advice and support in specific investigations. this agreement will help fight crime and increase security. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ china plays a critical role in the fight against organised crime. in recent years, they have become a country of origin, destination or transit relevant to the objectives of criminal organisations. their activities also threaten the security of europe, inter alia, by facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, euro counterfeiting, cybercrime and money laundering. the strategic agreement between europol and china provides for the exchange of expertise, strategic analysis, information on investigative procedures and crime prevention methods. it also provides opportunities for training, mutual advice and support in specific investigations. importantly, the agreement will not include personal data. it will also help to combat crime and increase the security of eu citizens. for these reasons, i am in favour of a strategic agreement between europol and china.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. the european union's relations with the acp countries are of great importance and the objectives of this agreement must be clearly defined. i think that the resolution in its present form is too general, and that it refers to political dialogue, development aid and economic and trade cooperation. i feel that these are general guidelines that need to be worked out, and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the neuser report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. i am convinced that work on the future partnership between the acp states and the european union after the expiry of the cotonou agreement in 2020 must continue, as this is in the interest of all concerned. but we have to think about what the best choice is for the nature of the relationship after this contract expires. i believe that the union's relations with the acp states could take the form of an umbrella agreement which would define a more general, global framework for our relations based on dialogue on issues such as the achievement of the sustainable development goals, climate change and migration, while allowing for a parallel strengthening of relations with individual regions or sub-regions based on more specific agreements. we also have to think about the future of the economic partnership agreements, because it is not clear whether these agreements will be able to exist independently because of the reference to the cotonou agreement. however, i think that the epas have proved their effectiveness in regulating our economic and trade relations and no one has any doubts about the validity of their continuation. finally, i would like to stress that the new agreement between the european union and the acp states must continue to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the acp-eu partnership agreement is the most comprehensive agreement between developing countries and the european union. since 2000, it has been the cornerstone of the eu's relations with 79 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the cotonou agreement expires in 2020, and the main objective of this resolution is therefore to establish a new relationship between the eu and the acp countries in order to improve the efficiency of cooperation and adapt it to new challenges. the resolution sets out the future acp-eu relationship in three main areas: political dialogue, development cooperation and economic and trade cooperation. calls for the fight against poverty and inequality and the promotion of sustainable development to remain the overriding objective of acp-eu cooperation. it also believes that the new agreement must be a political project based on the principles of ownership and must clearly eliminate the donor-beneficiary mentality. the private sector is an area to be considered as it can play a key role in the development process and contribute to its financing, protecting investments with respect for people, traditional property and uses and the environment in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union needs to be reformed to make it a more effective cooperation platform that responds to the challenges of the 21st century. there is no doubt that 40 years after the cotonou agreement, eu-acp cooperation has not produced the expected results, especially when compared with other partnership agreements to which the eu is a party. it is therefore necessary to analyse first of all the effectiveness of the cotonou partnership agreement so far, the results of which should form the basis for further action. the ep report rightly emphasises that partnership should be based on a political and economic project, not on a donor/beneficiary relationship. it was also noted that economic partnership agreements are an essential element for the development of these regions, while bringing benefits to european businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou partnership agreement, signed in 2000, governs the cooperation of 79 developing countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific with the european union. the agreement expires in 2020, which requires a new legal framework for the eu's relations with these countries. the resolution outlines future relations in three main areas: political dialogue, development aid and economic and trade cooperation. i agree that tackling poverty and inequality remains an important objective of acp-eu cooperation, as does promoting sustainable development with respect for the environment. sixteen years after the cotonou agreement, the development of a new framework for relations with developing countries requires reflection. we should break the donor-beneficiary relationship. it should be borne in mind that the political situation in the acp countries has changed considerably since 2000. since the beginning of the century, little has been achieved together on global challenges, including security, and the acp-eu joint institutions have been ineffective and have not produced concrete results. the financing of further cooperation is also an important issue that needs to be considered. i doubt that the proposal for future relations presented in the report meets these needs. i therefore abstained.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. greece has received almost eur 240 billion in aid over six and a half years, but at the same time it has experienced a decline of almost 30% in gdp, as if the country were in a state of war. at the same time, the average unemployment rate in greece has reached 25% and among young people it is as high as 50%, which means that the country has lost a generation. the public finance system has also been destroyed, reflected in the current ratio of public debt to gdp of close to 180%, compared to only 110% at the outbreak of the crisis. now, while most macroeconomic indicators have improved slightly, the economic and social costs of more than six years of greek mandated recovery programs are staggering. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. we don't accept anything you're accusing us of. clearly, the therapy used in greece is wrong. that's a lot of billions of dollars of aid going into that country, but at the same time, very little money actually goes into that country's budget. unfortunately, this is aid to banks and big business, and certainly not to greece. unfortunately, this is a therapy that doesn't lead to the right goal.
madam president, the agreement on the third greek programme was signed in july last year. since then, the greek economy has returned to a growth path, but the recovery is still fragile and needs urgently to be supported by a range of reforms. we encourage the greek government to accelerate their implementation, especially those improving the pension system, tax collection, bank governance and the energy market. we all express our solidarity with the greek people in this difficult time, but let me stress that the cost of necessary reforms could have been lower had those reforms been implemented earlier. unfortunately, because of the populist policy stance adopted initially by the greek government, including many unrealistic promises, precious time was wasted and greece fell back into recession last year. populism never pays off and this lesson needs to be constantly kept in mind. the future of the current programme is, however, uncertain because of wide differences in the debt sustainability analyses produced by the commission and the imf. in my opinion the imf conclusions and forecast are controversial. debt restructuring through nominal reduction is not the solution. it involves moral hazard and is not necessary. other measures could be considered, including the extension of maturities and grace periods and the reduction of interest rates. strict conditionality, of course, remains key to the final success.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the conflict of interest of commissioners and commissioner-designate is a very sensitive issue, but it is also one which is so sensitive and which so captures the imagination of our society that we cannot ignore the situations which are taking place and which also cause us concern. the european parliament's legal affairs committee is required to give an opinion on whether a candidate for commissioner actually meets all the requirements relating to the absence of a conflict of interest. the problem is that we in the legal affairs committee have virtually no sensible material on which to base such an opinion in a safe way and at the same time guarantee that we are really serious about it. it seems that we and the european commission have a lot to do in this respect. the code of conduct for commissioners is of course an extremely important instrument, but many of the provisions contained therein are of a very general nature. we'd like to know what the phrase "family interest" means. what kind of family or friendship links do the candidate or the incumbent have to this broad concept? it would also make the work of the legal affairs committee easier. we do not want to be a prosecutor's office or a court, but we want to do the work very precisely and very honestly that the rules of procedure of the european parliament place on the shoulders of the members of the committee on legal affairs in the election of new commissioners and the evaluation of the work of the current commissioners. as for current affairs, le monde, a widely read french newspaper, wrote that the reality described in the bahamas leaks is a moral betrayal of the elite. i mean, what elite? they're possibly criminals, they're not elites. you'd think a newspaper as distinguished as le monde would be more accurate.
madam president, the so-called ‘bahamas leaks’ have revealed further information on the world of offshore tax havens. they shed light on a secretive offshore centre which offers anonymity and no taxes on profits, capital gains income and inheritance to companies that register there. the large scale of both the panama papers and the bahamas leaks has proven that tax evasion is a massive structural problem, which we can only fight if we act together. this requires an effective cooperation between the eu member states, as well as exerting pressure on tax haven countries to change their tax policies towards more transparency. anonymity and secrecy cannot be offered if they are used to avoid or evade paying due taxes. taking into account the similar schemes revealed by the panama papers and the bahamas leaks, i welcome the fact that the bahamas leaks revelations fall under the competences of the newly established committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance, and tax evasion (pana). therefore, i strongly urge the commission and the member states to cooperate closely with parliament and with the pana committee in order to more effectively fight tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. speeding up the process of setting up a joint list of tax havens will surely be a step in the right direction. the scandalous practices revealed in the bahamas leaks have to be stopped.
the recently revealed cases of mario barroso, neelie kroes, conni hedegaard, as well as the role of president juncker in the development of luxembourg's economy, as previously revealed through luxleax, undermine already deeply damaged trust in the european institutions. there are few better examples of the discrepancy between the fine words and the deeds that follow the ancient maxim that money does not stink. i would like to give another recent example: the two rapporteurs of the european parliament on the audiovisual directive are members of the westdeutsche rundfunk board. my colleague kammerevert is even the chairwoman of the wdr's program committee. during the last public hearing at cult, however, in order to ensure the independence of the media from politics, they did not refer to their own example or to that of mr ruprecht polenz, a leading cdu politician and, more recently, the long-standing chairman of the zdf television board, but focused on the example of poland, in particular the country whose media is dominated by german companies. there's no better example of hypocrisy.
madam president! fellow workers! a serious crisis requires a strong and decisive response. i want to say that i am disappointed with the words of commissioner moscovici, because there is no sign of any serious reform in this area. i am, like many members, in favour of passing new legislation to extend the grace period for former commissioners to at least five years. it is a matter of concern to the commission, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an answer. it is also worth mentioning here that the draft report by mr giegold is a good example of how to remedy the situation. i hope we will soon be voting on this report, which sets out a comprehensive approach, comprehensive remedies, including a consistent register of lobbyists, the need to record the influence of lobbyists in all legislative reports, and therefore the legislative footprint, and finally extended waiting periods. that's a good pattern we should follow.
ladies and gentlemen! this is not the first time we've talked about calais here, but every time we talk about it, the situation there is worse. but why? why? well, because we don't follow our own rules. is it legal to rob trucks? no, but they do, they do it every day. what about the police? the police are doing nothing. the member was kind enough to mention that we need to develop an integration program for immigrants. true, we must, but immigrants who behave like this should be integrated into prisons. if we don't follow our own rules, then we're just fighting with what we have. you say this is a wall of shame the british are building. and why would a reasonable government let someone like that in? why would he do that? the law that exists should be respected, and that should be our appeal to the french government today.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the situation in calais is a lens into the unresolved migration crisis in the european union, in europe in general. on the one hand, we have the tragedy of these migrants who are in this camp and its surroundings in tragic conditions, because we cannot say that everyone there is a criminal and wants to enter the uk illegally. on the other hand, there is the tragedy of truck drivers who risk their health and lives to transport goods safely. it is absolutely unacceptable to me that fines are imposed on truck drivers for having illegal immigrants on board their vehicles. it cannot be that the burden is shifted onto the entrepreneurs in a situation where the administration is unable to cope. and so i would like to conclude, listening to this discussion, by saying that we need more pragmatism and less ideology on this issue, because otherwise we're not going to solve this problem.
mr. chairman, please! drivers in calais, including polish drivers, are victims of violence and aggression. we have a responsibility to ensure that these people get home safely, that their families are safe, and that their businesses are safe, and we also have to ensure that they have the income that they deserve, that they need to live. what are we to do as the european union? first of all, don't interfere with the countries that protect us from illegal immigration. we heard a few times in this room yesterday, and we heard it again today, attacks on hungary for defending not only its borders, but also the borders of the european union. there's a saying here that calais is europe. yes, this is a picture of europe, but not of today, but of the one to come. if we don't really change the migration policy and the european union authorities that are responsible for this crisis, we're going to have 10, 20 and 50 places like calais, not one.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my concern about the situation affecting drivers in calais. we've been getting some very disturbing reports that the safety of the carriers is at risk. according to the road haulage association, polish hauliers are one of the largest groups of people travelling to england by ferry. the drivers are victims of migrants who have been living in a camp in calais for several months. migrants storm the lanes, setting up roadblocks, forcing motorists to stop. any attempt to smuggle migrants is severely punished by british and french customs. the situation is so serious that the behaviour of migrants towards drivers is increasingly taking the form of attacks, the consequences of which can be tragic. i call on all states to work out solutions that ensure safe working conditions for carriers while maintaining continuity of supply.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! traveling is an education, so says an old polish proverb. today we know the world, today in the age of the internet, in the age of television, we know the world through social media, but that image is often false. as evidenced by several debates about my country here, which is why i am very happy about this initiative, i support it. i think that a visit to poland would be very instructive for many young people who today only get their picture of poland from television. also, herr weber, you have my full support.
mr. chairman, please! the digital and telecommunications markets are the key to creating new jobs, to innovation. this is as important for citizens as roaming charges, which are due to disappear in june next year. now you have to look at the national rates, because they're too high, and the internet, even the fast internet, is not able to replace faster, more reliable connections. so we need to invest in a network with the highest bandwidth. every city, every region, every village in the union must be connected. and now the most important thing: the use of radio bands. we still have 28 national regulations, prices, schedules. how can we compete in 4g and 5g without such uniformity? the discussion of the digital revolution is relevant to all industries. so i would encourage the industry representatives in the room or listening online to have a strong discussion about making radio bands available for our internet needs. this may make it more likely that member states will meet the expectations of the commission, the european parliament and all citizens.
mr. chairman, please! viviane reding reminded us that we've been working on this for 13 years. we're actually on the topic of breaking down boundaries. and she's also started a fight against the extra charges when we cross borders, and let's remember that there are no borders. it's been 13 years, but the data charges have dropped by more than 20 times, the roaming charges when we're abroad have dropped several times. why would you do that? because we worked with the european commission on this and we regulated the prices. the companies didn't go bankrupt after all, despite the job announcements that we've heard here over and over again. i also wish we didn't have to regulate so that competition would force down prices, but there is no competition and consumers are basically guided by domestic prices when they choose to make calls. and that's why international calls are horrendously expensive. i agree with all those who said: 'roam like at home' means 'europe is our home'. we should not therefore be charged for cross-border contacts, since there are no such borders. in conclusion, i would like to say that i very much regret that the proposal to regulate crossborder telephone prices within the european union was not included in the last package and we - the european parliament - will add it to the european commission's proposal.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for this fruitful discussion we are having here right now. if i can just agree with jens rohde that time was too limited to broach all those difficult questions within one minute or even four minutes. it is practically impossible. so let’s remember from where we started. a member of the european parliament, viviane reding, made a proposal and then we started to decrease roaming surcharges. but just one and a half years ago we were faced with the ‘5+5+5’ proposal: five minutes in five days in a year, ‘roam like at home.’ and people had to be happy about this proposal. we had hot debates and we were able to find a solution. thanks to this, roaming surcharges have decreased by 75% since this may. this is the first year people have said that they did not feel as if somebody was murdering their wallets when spending their summer holidays in other countries. in comparison with 2009 prices, we can say that the cost of roaming surcharges for calls, and sms messages have decreased by 92%, and even by 96% for data. today, many of you said that that we are bullish with regard to roaming surcharges. it is not a done deal yet and finalising the whole process is very complicated. as was mentioned by mr pereira, member states are in very different situations. in southern countries operators had to make investments to provide services to tourists visiting those countries only during the three summer months. it means that those operators are not able to get revenues during the other nine months. of course i am simplifying the situation. it means they have the right to ask for higher prices. and this is the reason why they have blocked this wholesale reform. there is now a blocking minority in the south and also in the north. what is wrong in the north? nothing is wrong, but, as miapetra kumpula-natri knows, in finland for example, for the same price you can get 100 times as many gigabytes than in hungary. while the average consumption of gigabytes in the european union is just one gigabyte per month, in finland it is 10 gigabytes per month. nevertheless, i think if this pattern of trips made by europeans during the year does not change then the majority of service providers will survive. it means we have to prevent abuse of the system, because people will not start to travel just to avoid high roaming surcharges. so fair use policies are, of course, important. as we know, we decided to withdraw this proposal based on daily limits. according to eurostat, just 0.1% of all trips last longer than 92 days. so practically, financially in real life this is not an issue, and it was not an issue. we have made new proposals based on residency, and i think they are better proposals. but we have to deal with wholesale prices. today, i still think eur 50 for one gigabyte is too much. it is too much, and even the proposal we made from the european commission – eur 8.50 per gigabyte – still leaves space to decrease wholesale prices. we have to find a good compromise which allows us to protect those investments made in southern countries to provide services to tourists and also to protect those consumers in scandinavian countries, for example, who love those generous offers with really affordable prices. so – as i said – i am sorry to say that is not yet a done deal. the european commission, member states and the european parliament have to work together to find the right balance, and we have to be keep our promises. we have to abolish roaming surcharges in the european union. i am looking forward to a fruitful cooperation with you.
in writing. the abolition of roaming charges is undoubtedly one of the great successes of the european union, which has made it possible for europeans to experience tangibly the benefits of community membership. in the face of this rising tide of populism and euroscepticism, there is no doubt that we need hard evidence of the positive impact of the union. i therefore believe that we must do everything possible to ensure that the abolition of roaming is a real abolition of roaming and not an artificial transfer of costs from people using telephones abroad to other mobile phone users. this potential situation could be interpreted as a sign of the superficiality of the union's actions and the weakness of its institutions, and we cannot afford to do that. i therefore believe that we should take decisive steps to prevent such behaviour from being committed by mobile operators.
mr. chairman, please! extremes are the enemy of the good. i don't accept these votes that are urging the presidency to build a centralized prosecutor's office that doesn't trust the states. what we need is time, delicacy and common ground on this. so i cannot agree with what the s&d and alde representatives have said here. if the prosecution is to be established, it will be as a collegial structure and cooperating with the states. that's why i want to acknowledge the presidency's efforts in this area. there is also, of course, the delicate question of the shape of the pif directive. it is not obvious that vat fraud is to be a european matter, especially since in 90% of cases it is the states that are harmed by this fraud. in any case, i appeal to rationality and to a sense of mutual trust and to give the presidency time to finish this job.
in writing. i welcome the progress of the legislative work in the council, which recently adopted the full consolidated text of the draft regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. the creation of this agency will be the culmination of many years of debate and efforts by the european parliament and the commission to equip the european union with powers to protect its own budgetary interests in criminal matters. however, before the prosecutor's office can start its work, there are still a few issues that need to be resolved. the new pif directive, which clarifies the scope of the prosecutor's office's competence in this area, should be adopted as a first step. the important dilemmas which arose during the legislative work in the council (adequate legal basis, vat) and which blocked this process seem to have been resolved by the court of justice in the taricco case. it is also necessary to complete the reform of the judicial cooperation body in criminal matters, eurojust, with which the public prosecutor's office is to be closely linked under the treaty . the recent european parliament and council regulation on europol will provide the olaf with significant support in the exchange of operational information. these are the preconditions for the council to enter the final stage of setting up the office of the prosecutor, which will, as we know today, operate in a more structured form of enhanced cooperation.
mr. chairman of the committee! i think chairman kamall was right when he said that in dealing with russia, you need more sticks than carrots, because that carrot has grown into a big carrot and the stick has become a little stick. we have to respect our own words and our own position. after russia annexed crimea and de facto part of eastern ukraine, nothing changed. and if we're going to be a serious partner, we should be consistent on this issue, too. when it comes to immigration, this issue should not and cannot divide us. we may have different opinions, but let's work out a compromise. it would be wrong for a temporary majority to impose decisions on a temporary minority on this issue. i would like to make a strong appeal to the european parliament to take a united stand on this issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and commissioners! i will start with the reaction to the words of mrs le pen, who said that poland was turning its back on the european union. if more than 80% of poles are consistently, consistently and firmly in favour of the european union, then it means that mrs le pen (now absent) has lost touch with reality. every eu summit, in a time of ebbing faith in the sense of togetherness, of crisis of trust and of a return to fear about the future, is both an opportunity to rebuild trust and a risk of exposing and deepening divisions. so this is a very serious test of the responsibility of european leaders not only to deliver a message to the country that is typical of: "how much have i won, how bravely have i fought for the national interests?" but also: "what common european recipe have i found for common problems that are beyond the capabilities of any single country?" and it's about the concrete, not the political announcements. the agenda for this upcoming summit perfectly illustrates both the opportunity and the temptation to expose differences in areas such as migration, trade, relations with russia. of course, the most difficult area for a european compromise is migration, because it is here that the greatest devastation is, where xenophobia and populism rule the most, where they manage people's fears and emotions. what is needed here is concrete measures to build a common european sense of security. there are issues that are not controversial: aid to bulgaria, agreements with third countries, but this automatic system of relocating refugees, for example, is not the way to find a common european solution. and now, the last word on russia. this, unfortunately, dear mrs. zimmer, is the empire of evil again. i say this with regret as a lover of russian music and literature. if you can't be convinced by donbas, georgia, crimea, then syria should be.
in writing. the situation in syria, the further implementation of migration policy and the strengthening of border controls, as well as the strategy towards trade agreements that could have a significant impact on eu industry, are the main issues to be addressed at the european council in brussels in october 2021. concrete action is needed to pave the way for the implementation of effective migration policies. strengthen border guards in countries protecting the union's external borders. europe is part of a globalised world and should be better prepared to seize the opportunities offered by migration, especially in the face of an ageing population. nevertheless, it is essential to prevent and reduce illegal migration. this requires strengthening the eu's strategy to combat human trafficking and smuggling and deepening cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. the new management of the schengen area must also ensure a higher level of security. in the context of trade agreements, although the commission is in favour of the swift implementation of the canada trade agreement (ceta), i think that the first thing to do is to dispel the doubts that it raises in our societies. there is a need for broad consultation and for real safeguards to protect, for example, the steel industry in europe.
in writing. ‒ i fully support peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention, signed by 93 countries, regulates the legal custody of children and gives legal effect to the laws of the country where the child is habitually resident. this is a very important regulation, for today more and more marriages are breaking up and, unfortunately, there are even cases of kidnapping. i voted in favour because no country that meets the requirements can be prevented from acceding to such an important convention. i also think that austria and romania should agree to this as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between states in resolving cases of abduction of children abroad. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at international level by establishing courts competent to deal with such disputes. in this case, the law of the country where the child resides is applicable. in addition, the convention establishes a system guaranteeing the immediate return of a child abducted. today's vote reflects our desire to see as many countries as possible accede to the convention. many eu citizens are from peru, and children with links to that country will now be protected from illegal abduction.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to give their consent, in the interest of the european union, to the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of child abduction is a document of particular importance, since it establishes a system enabling contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of child abduction abroad by a parent or legal guardian. it is equally problematic in such situations to determine the court with jurisdiction to grant custody of a child to a parent or guardian when each parent or guardian is a national of another country. the convention aims to address this problem at international level by establishing that only the courts and laws of the state in which the child resides have jurisdiction. the convention also establishes a system to guarantee the immediate return of a child who has been abducted. as many eu citizens are from peru and children have links to the peruvian community, which puts them at risk of illegal abduction, it is important that parliament approves this proposal to protect children across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction is an instrument of particular importance. first, it avoids prolonged uncertainty about the child's legal status. it is accompanied by a situation in which the child's parents are nationals of two different member states and a dispute arises as to which of them should be granted custody of the child and which court should decide on the matter. it is undoubtedly in the best interests of the child that this matter be resolved as soon as possible and that he be returned promptly and safely. in view of the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision authorising austria and romania to give their consent to such accession is necessary. this will allow the convention concluded between peru and the whole of the european union to enter into force. the hague convention has already been ratified by all the member states of the european union and dozens of other countries. the accession of another country deserves our approval and support, which is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i fully support kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction abroad. this convention regulates very important issues relating to the granting of custody of a child and the giving of legal effect to the laws of the country where the child has his or her habitual residence. i voted in favour because i am happy that every country has acceded to the hague convention, because it improves the settlement of disputes and the functioning of the courts.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased with the outcome of today's vote in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. such problems often arise when marriages between people of different nationalities break up. the convention was intended to establish that the courts and laws of the state in which the child resides have jurisdiction to deal with such disputes. the convention is an instrument of particular importance, which will become more effective the more states that participate in it. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is therefore a cause for satisfaction. the commission confirmed the country's readiness to implement the principles of the convention and to extend protection to children in the above-mentioned situation throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to give their consent, in the interest of the european union, to the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of child abduction is a document of particular importance, since it establishes a system enabling contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of child abduction abroad by a parent or legal guardian. it is equally problematic in such situations to determine the court with jurisdiction to grant custody of a child to a parent or guardian when each parent or guardian is a national of another country. the convention aims to address this problem at international level by establishing that only the courts and laws of the state in which the child resides have jurisdiction. the convention also establishes a system to guarantee the immediate return of a child who has been abducted. since the system based on the hague convention will be more effective the more countries that participate in it and the functioning of the judiciary in kazakhstan allows for its accession to the convention, it is appropriate in my view that the convention concluded between the european union and kazakhstan should enter into force in order to ensure that children are protected throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction is an instrument of particular importance. first, it avoids prolonged uncertainty about the child's legal status. it is accompanied by a situation in which the child's parents are nationals of two different member states and a dispute arises as to which of them should be granted custody of the child and which court should decide on the matter. it is undoubtedly in the best interests of the child that this matter be resolved as soon as possible and that he be returned promptly and safely. in view of the accession of kazakhstan to the hague convention, a council decision authorising member states to give their consent to that accession is necessary. this will allow the agreement between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union to enter into force. the hague convention has already been ratified by all the member states of the european union and dozens of other countries. the accession of another country deserves our approval and support, which is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention covers the essential aspects of custody of a child where the parents are of different nationalities and gives legal effect to the law of the country where the child has his or her habitual residence. i voted in favour because i believe that the more countries that are willing to join the hague convention, the better the resolution of disputes and the functioning of the courts will be. the citizens of these countries will be guaranteed stability and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ meps today voted in favour of south korea's accession to the hague convention. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 deals with the problems that arise when a union is dissolved. in this case, it is often tempting to use the lack of cooperation between the two countries to obtain custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is to determine the competent court and the country in which the trial is to take place. according to the convention, the courts and laws of the country in which the child resides have jurisdiction to hear such disputes. after south korea's accession to the convention, a council decision authorising the member states to give their consent to this accession, which i believe is highly desirable, will also be necessary.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accede, in the interest of the european union, to the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of child abduction is a document of particular importance, since it establishes a system enabling contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of child abduction abroad by a parent or legal guardian. it is equally problematic in such situations to determine the court with jurisdiction to grant custody of a child to a parent or guardian when each parent or guardian is a national of another country. the convention aims to address this problem at international level by establishing that only the courts and laws of the state in which the child resides have jurisdiction. the convention also establishes a system to guarantee the immediate return of a child who has been abducted. as the hague convention-based system will be more effective the more countries that participate in it and the functioning of the justice system in south korea allows for its accession to the convention, i believe it is appropriate that the eu-south korea convention should enter into force so that children are protected throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction is an instrument of particular importance. first, it avoids prolonged uncertainty about the child's legal status. it is accompanied by a situation in which the child's parents are nationals of two different member states and a dispute arises as to which of them should be granted custody of the child and which court should decide on the matter. it is undoubtedly in the best interests of the child that these matters be resolved as soon as possible and that the child be returned promptly and safely. in view of the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision authorising member states to consent to that accession is necessary. this will allow the agreement between south korea and the whole of the european union to enter into force. the hague convention has already been ratified by all the member states of the european union and dozens of other countries. the accession of another country deserves our approval and support, which is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for food and food security in the world. i'm glad that the amendments proposed by my group have been incorporated into the text of the revolution. addressing hunger and malnutrition is very important, and i welcome the text of the resolution which refers not only to immediate measures but also to long-term measures, such as the creation of sustainable agriculture that is resilient to climate change and food systems that can feed the world's population. the importance of increasing investment in this sector cannot be overlooked. i voted in favour of the resolution because it spells out the action to be taken to combat malnutrition and hunger.
in writing. ‒ the world's growing population is increasing the demand for food, and its scarcity is leading to hunger and poverty. malnutrition is mainly seen in children and takes the form of disorders in the body associated with stunted growth or low body weight, slowing down of natural development processes, general deterioration of health. in some countries, hunger is a serious problem, leading to an estimated 15 million deaths worldwide each year. rational food production and distribution are therefore essential to minimize this problem. to this end, support should be given to smaller food producers and a sustainable, efficient and climate-resilient model of agriculture should be promoted. social security should be provided to citizens in order to protect their basic food needs. modern food production and distribution systems must be able to feed the entire human population, estimated at 8.5 billion by 2030. the eu must therefore do everything it can to ensure that these objectives are met.
in writing. ‒ in the near future, food security and food supply will be a challenge due to increasing pressure on resources. the world's population is projected to increase significantly by 2050, which will require increased food production, reduced food waste and increased global availability, particularly where access is currently limited. it is essential to promote nutrition education programmes in schools and in local communities to promote healthy eating habits and a culture of responsible food purchasing. from the point of view of global food security, support should also be given to small farmers. the growing awareness and expectations of consumers about food and its quality and impact on human health can also be an opportunity for small family farms.
in writing. ‒ the european union's policies and actions for sustainable development have a global impact. an important test of this responsible role is to contribute to the fight against world food shortages. i agree that this requires eliminating systemic problems. hunger and malnutrition are often caused not so much by a lack of food as by its improper distribution. one third of all food produced is subsequently wasted. as the resolution rightly points out, more support is also needed for small farmers and local agriculture. ensuring access to land for the local population and countering mass land purchase practices is crucial. it is also essential to call on the european commission to increase these investments, which will directly address the problem of child malnutrition. member states should consistently support steps in the identified directions. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the group i belong to has always been against the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because, in my view, as in the opinion of the other members of the group, it would violate the principle of subsidiarity. i am also not in favour of the establishment of a european criminal justice system. i believe that the fight against abuse and the resolution of disputes should be carried out within the existing legal framework. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the latest analyses, the loss of vat revenue across the union in 2014 was an astronomical €159.5 billion. it is therefore necessary for the eu, and all member states, to take action to prosecute and discourage abuses against the eu's financial interests, thereby protecting taxpayers in all member states contributing to the eu budget. in this context, the proposal to create a european public prosecutor's office to reduce the current dispersion of national law enforcement agencies to protect the eu budget seems most appropriate. the resolution rightly pointed out that a clear and unambiguous set of powers and procedures for the eppo should be developed. i believe that the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to combat the tax losses suffered by all citizens is necessary, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of a european parliament resolution on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in the light of article 86 tfeu, the council may, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament, establish a european public prosecutor's office. it would investigate and prosecute those responsible for misuse of eu funds. the existence and the shape of the eppo raise a number of doubts. until now, only national authorities were empowered to investigate and prosecute perpetrators in the field indicated. first, it appears that the member states could achieve the objective of combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union within the current framework of coordination and cooperation. the provisions concerning the eppo need to be assessed in the light of the principle of subsidiarity. the european union should not seek to create new universal criminal law regulations. secondly, the analysis of the pif directive also raises doubts. it should be stressed that 90% of vat fraud is perpetrated against member states. it is not obvious that crimes in this area should be the domain of the union, the competence of a new supranational body. the european public prosecutor's office should be a collegiate structure, working closely with the member states. in the further work on the establishment of this body, the presidency of the council must have time to consider these concerns and comments. i therefore voted against the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that the union has seen the need for reindustrialisation after 20 years of deindustrialisation. yesterday in this chamber we passed a stupid piece of legislation on the environment: the paris convention, which would mean that 15 to 20 million people in europe would lose their jobs if it were implemented. nobody will do it, thankfully, but right here in this room, parliament has passed legislation that will cause 15 to 20 million people to lose their jobs because of the increased taxes needed to fight the idiotic global warming. well, gentlemen, this is hypocrisy. i agree with my colleague mélenchon. i remember the days of the commune, when workers' delegations were brought to the parliaments. it's not about taking care of the rights of individual workers in a particular factory. we have to change the whole policy that was based on fighting industrialization, industry, capitalism. we need to get back to normal. thank you for your attention. besides, i think the european union must be destroyed.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, i decided to vote against. the resolution is due to the mass layoffs announced by both caterpillar and alston. the first company will see 10,000 job cuts worldwide. the company's declining sales are due to a global slowdown in oil production. alston, which plans to end its 130-year-old tradition of making trains in belfort, will offer its employees jobs elsewhere despite the layoffs of some 400 workers. the situation of the two giant companies caterpillar and alston should make us meps think about how to counter such situations, but i do not think there is a need for a european reindustrialisation policy, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ one of the eu's key achievements is the creation of a competitive and single common market with the potential to attract investors, sustain strong value chains, create jobs and grow. the economic growth generated in these conditions directly translates into numerous sectors of the economy and the living conditions of people, who gain a wide range of opportunities in terms of employment and choice of residence. the social market economy model adopted in europe aims to ensure citizens' access to the labour market, social security and economic growth, which also involves respecting moral and ethical principles of conduct towards employees. however, the increasingly frequent problems, such as those currently being discussed in the ep, are another signal that should mobilise action to protect jobs in europe by making us more competitive in an increasingly globalised world market. to this end, it is necessary to pursue the re-industrialisation of europe consistently.
in writing. ‒ on 2 september 2016, caterpillar announced a major global restructuring plan, which includes the closure of the gosselies plant, resulting in the redundancy of 2500 direct employees and the threatened employment of around 4000 subcontractors. alstom's management took a similar decision by transferring its railway production activities (400 jobs) from the belfort plant to the reichshoffen plant, which is equivalent to the closure of the former plant. however, these are not the only production sites to be restructured in europe. further redundancies are likely to occur at alstom's plants in spain and italy and at caterpillar's plant in northern ireland. european industry is facing global competition. many third country companies export products with lower production costs to the european market, often with the political and financial support of their governments. in order to remain competitive and able to invest in europe, and to meet social and environmental challenges, eu companies are often faced with difficult decisions that have the greatest impact on their employees. it is therefore necessary to develop a european strategy for the main industrial sectors in europe in order to create a more favourable market environment and to maintain high quality employment, expertise and investment in europe.
the question asked by raising the blue card. we must call for an immediate end to the bombing of aleppo and we must call for peace talks without preconditions. but to understand your position, i'd like to know who you consider moderate forces? the muslim brothers of the legion as-sham or the salafists of nur ad-din zangi? who are these moderate forces? we need peace, not accusations.
blue-card question. – ms harms, i share your assessment. how would you view or assess the situation when – having the same assessment, i understand – washington breaks the talks with russia, condemning the aleppo drama, but ms mogherini telephones mr lavrov asking him for help to deliver humanitarian aid to those who are bombed by russians and syrians at the same time? this is a complete divergence between us and america, which is going against all of us.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! twelve days ago i returned from a country that is neighbouring syria from jordan. i visited the syrian refugee camps there. and it speaks well for the european parliament that not only is it sending a mission, but we have a second debate on syria in this session, because we talked about education in syria. the european union, we, we put a lot of money in there. and that's the difference between us and russia, which is funding syria's bombs. we give money to syrian refugees there. that's a really important distinction. that's the first one. and secondly, ladies and gentlemen, history repeats itself in more ways than one. recall what happened after the september 11, 2001, attacks on the world trade center, when russia tried to present itself to the west as an ally in the fight against islamists. it's the same scenario. let's not get fooled. they're treating this case as absolutely instrumental. they were hosting hamas in the kremlin until recently. i'm really asking for discretion and sobriety here.
today parliament is debating us, and tomorrow it will adopt a resolution on the escalation of the conflict in syria, especially in aleppo. the resolution we are preparing states that the european union is one of the largest donors of humanitarian aid to people fleeing violence and destruction. i think that not only should that aid continue to flow, but it should be increased. central and eastern european governments, and poland in particular, have announced an even stronger commitment to the proposed flexible solidarity. in paragraph three of our resolution, we call on all parties to the conflict to cease attacks on defenseless civilians and infrastructure. we must therefore give even more tangible support to the un's efforts in this area.
mr. chairman, please! we have heard a lot of different opinions, different opinions, and i think it's more about who is more to blame, more about not getting any political benefit from peace. mr. lambsdorff said beautifully that there's a fire here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need to create and maintain corridors, we need to create and intensify our presence as well, and we need to think about how to save people and how to save potential in syria, which could live its own life after the war is over. i very much welcome the views that are being expressed to strengthen support for ms mogherini to represent our interests and to contribute effectively to the resolution of this war.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution adopted by the european parliament in march this year called on the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to take clear action to ensure that the constitution is respected and to guarantee democratic, transparent and timely elections by the end of 2016. recent reports suggest that the election date will be postponed, which the authorities explain by the ordering of issues related to the updating of the voter register and budgetary problems. this decision will lead to increased political tension and protests by the opposition and civil society, which are being bloody suppressed by the security forces. as we know, dozens of people were killed in clashes in kinshasa last week. the current political situation, especially the uncertainty surrounding president kabila's attempts to illegally stay in power, requires a strong reaction, pressure from the international community, to prevent a repeat of the tragic events of 1996-2003.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thousands, tens of thousands of polish women took to the streets on monday with banners. strong, united, and uncompromising. this black march has moved the world. it also moved the european parliament, because it was not only opposed to the cruel abortion bill, which pis gave the green light to, passing it in the sejm. they are already afraid to walk away from this because this march is a fight for freedom, for dignity, for the right to choose, for living in a modern european country. that's the poland we're committed to, and the current government won't change that. this march is our strong protest against the attempts of the pis to take over more spheres of life, especially those that concern our privacy and our families. i'm addressing the rulers of poland. you have hearts of stone. women are not commodities to pay off your electoral debts. you have no right to force a woman to make a decision other than what she feels is in her own conscience, especially when the pregnancy is life threatening or is the result of rape. you wanted to put women in jail for choosing to have abortions. is that why you wanted to put women in prison? that's not allowed. it doesn't have our approval and it never will. if laws were introduced that infringe on the constitutional rights of women, no one would be able to challenge them in a paralyzed constitutional court. despite the rejection of them today by the committee in the sejm, the problem is not solved. respect the compromise that is in place, if only because in a country torn by political divisions, in a country whose government is attacking the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the media, there is no room for substantive debate today. we don't need another ideological war, a war that you've got your doctors involved in. it is the duty of the physician to act in accordance with science and medical knowledge. all the statistics show that tightening the laws is not reducing but increasing the number of abortions. leave the conscience to the women. they should be the ones making the choice, often a dramatically difficult, heroic choice. leave it to us. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card. rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the mp! the european union is not competent to deal with worldview issues, including the regulation of abortion. we believe that the european parliament is not in a position to discuss ethical issues. what happened to make you change your mind so dramatically and suddenly? second question: have you personally congratulated the members of your political group, the ppe, the psl, who submitted a motion to reject the citizenship law and effectively passed it in the sejm? they deserve congratulations or relegation from the group.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, the european parliament does not legislate on women's issues in poland. we're not doing that. but he can discuss whatever he wants.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you remember that the second article of the charter of fundamental rights clearly states in the first paragraph that every person has the right to life, and the second paragraph of this article says that no one may be sentenced to death even by a public authority, much less by a private person. i understand that you despise the 500,000 poles who signed this bill and you won today against the constitutional court in poland, which in 1997 said that the right to life is the foundation of a democratic state of law, that its value cannot be differentiated at any stage. yes, today ideology won over constitutional democracy in poland, and you showed that the court in poland is only a tool for you to fight a political battle.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i think our discussion is pointless, because you want to discuss a law that does not exist and to speak on matters in which the european parliament has no power. but since you want to hear about the situation of women in poland, i would like to add to your knowledge, commissioner, and remind you that poland was one of the first countries to recognise women's voting rights, that according to eurostat data, we have the smallest difference between the salaries of women and men in terms of average wages, that the fundamental rights agency's 2014 survey proved that the number of acts of violence against women in poland, including rape, is one of the lowest in europe. poland has developed a very good system of protection for pregnant women in the workplace. it was the polish government of law and justice that prepared and implemented a good program to support families. it's worth talking about. poland is the country that has a female prime minister for the third time since 1989. and prime minister szydlo was here in the european parliament and she addressed the issues that you are raising today. i'm afraid you're not listening very carefully, because i can't assume that you're as bad-tempered as you are. you're looking for a replacement subject. you want to deal with issues that are not the responsibility of the eu institutions. and we should be leaning towards the migration crisis, the security crisis, the economic crisis, but you want women's rights. so why have we not debated and are not debating in the european parliament the situation of women in germany? do you remember what happened on new year's eve in many german cities, and what happened during the last oktoberfest? perhaps your left-wing sensibility will see the situation of women in germany, where their rights are violated? but no, you want to deal with poland, because poland has the misfortune of having an opposition that loves to speak badly about its homeland. i would like to stress once again that no eu treaty confers on the union competence in matters of worldview, on the contrary, the interference of the eu institutions in these matters is unacceptable, as the court of justice of the eu has also confirmed. interference in these matters is also not justified, commissioner, by the charter of fundamental rights. yesterday, prime minister beata szydlo once again confirmed that the polish government maybe this crazy polish opposition will finally hear, cutting off its ears is not working on changing the law in this area. it turns out that the outrage of the state is that citizens in poland have submitted to the polish parliament a citizens' project on the protection of life, that is, the eu parliament would like to take away the right of polish citizens to a citizens' initiative. you can't shout the truth. so you want to discuss a law that doesn't exist and on which the european parliament has no say. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - the ambassador! i thought i was speaking quite clearly, so maybe the translation didn't follow. but i was talking about the situation of women in poland. your statement proves that you don't care about the situation of women in poland, you are only interested in one issue: whether women in poland will have free access to abortion. so for you, women's rights are equated with free access to abortion. not for me, no.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam member, are you aware that the pretext for today's debate is the fact that you have misled members? the polish government did not prepare any draft, but the polish government promised during the election campaign that it would look at all citizens' projects with special attention. and that's the project that 500,000 polish citizens have just submitted. and these protests should be against the authors of this project, but the opposition in poland used this to attack the polish government, which did not prepare this project. i'll tell you more. a few hours ago, the bill was rejected in its entirety by a committee of the polish parliament. do you realize that?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are not the polish parliament, so if we are talking about a range of rights, we should be talking about those rights in relation to all european union countries, not just poland, which means that apparently this debate here is a kind of gift to the polish pro-abortion circles, because right now the issue of legal protection of life conceived in poland is a topic being considered by the polish parliament. in poland, we have the opportunity to learn the basic facts about this field. the polish press is now reporting some pretty shocking facts and information. i'll just give you one of those facts because time is short: the abortion procedure is covered by meticulous statistical research and covers the so-called civilized west. it doesn't include some buddhist or some islamist, because there's simply no abortion law and there's no registration of abortion. at this moment, we have public press reports in poland about the number of abortions. in all western lands, there are 50 million legal, registered abortions each year. let's think about this number, i'm shocked by it myself. after all, the entire second world war took far fewer lives worldwide, and it lasted six years. that's more than the population of poland, that's more than the population of spain. isn't this the collective suicide of western civilization? is it any wonder that this depopulated land is now being settled by islamists? we forget the basic commandment of god. and the lord god said to adam, "be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and we will fill the earth". here, once, in the respect of ethics, a great latin civilization was built, and today its remnants are dying. we must build a future based on respect... (the president read out the minutes) (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you agree that the debate on women's rights is a matter for the european parliament? and do you agree with the fact that women in all european countries still haven't gotten these rights, and that therefore the women's protest on monday that we saw on tv and that we saw on social media is an example of how this balance is extremely fragile and very easy to break, and it is our duty to stand up for these rights and to discuss it?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yes, i agree that women's rights are rights that are broader than just women's rights in poland, they concern women in europe and in the world. all these rights should be universal and created on the basis of a universal ethic. if there is a violation of women's rights anywhere, it is mainly the right to life of women who have not yet seen the world because they are too young and dependent, because they are still in the womb of their mothers and can be legally and with impunity taken away. these women are really being hurt very badly in the law and it should be corrected.
thank you, mr president! in poland, demonstrations are underway under the slogan "save the women!" it should be supported. but you also have to think about a reasonable compromise, because society is divided almost equally. i would remind you that article 23 of the charter of fundamental rights states: 'equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas ...'. the principle of equality shall not prevent the maintenance or adoption of measures providing for specific advantages for the under-represented sex. so this principle must be applied here, because the unborn are less likely to be female. so i propose that we accept the premise that abortion is allowed, but not the killing of little girls. this would reduce the number of abortions by almost half, while providing women with the protection that you want. european ethics require us to protect women and children above all. let's do this now! the girls we saved will be grateful. like the famous blind singer, mr. bocelli, thanked his mother. but we must not forget the rights of men. half the genetic material belongs to the father. therefore, it is necessary that the father's consent is also necessary for the child to be killed. after all, if the child's birth depended solely on the mother, there would be no reason for child support, for example. the father and mother have the same rights to the child before birth and must have the same rights after birth, because the child does not belong to the mother it also belongs to the father. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yeah, i can imagine someone grabbing me and taping me on the back, also the back, like a tiny two-month-old baby. and this glue won't come off for nine months, and i'm not gonna be free before then. i ask you, do i have the right to kill this child then? because for nine months i have to wear it on my back, the glue won't come off. do i have the right to kill or not?
the question asked by raising the blue card. dear madam, i have a simple question because from what i understand, and from what you have said, it follows that you completely, i repeat: completely do not know what the situation of women in poland is like. you don't know the facts. you don't know that, speaking of going abroad for an abortion. it just goes to show that you're completely unprepared for this debate. but i want to ask you if you know - if you will stand up here and answer my question - that in poland, in a democratic country, the citizens' initiative was processed according to the law of a democratic country in the polish parliament, that the polish government and the polish government majority have nothing to do with this project. will you answer my question? do you know anything about this?
the member of the house of representatives insulted our colleague gericke, you didn't react. i would ask that we speak as civilized people, that you in such a situation, to draw attention to colleagues that they behave inappropriately. and i would ask the bureau to consider how to deal with such cases, because in other cases the chairman has reacted very strongly and has even imposed penalties on participants in such a debate who are not able to behave.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'd like to ask my colleague, because she seems to know very well the situation in poland, the history of poland, this problem we're talking about. do you know when the law of choice you speak of was introduced in poland? what years was it practiced?
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. you may be familiar with the famous quote by british prime minister james callaghan in the 1970s: "before truth can put on its shoes, a lie will have crossed half the world". you're talking about the law and justice government, that prime minister kaczynski, the church is making such rigorous changes. i want to tell you that this was and is a citizen's project, it was a citizen's project. you may remember, and it is worth knowing, that in poland, a fully democratic country, citizens have the right to take a legislative initiative. (the president cut off the speaker)
i may start with the answer, because mrs. in 't veld has not given an answer to my question. let me remind you that the right to free choice, which you mentioned, was established in poland in 1942. you can look up wikipedia and see what those times were like. we in poland had a time of free choice, for a long time. i remember the time in poland when they said that abortion is like tooth extraction. and democratic poland after 1989 broke with this practice, because it was a totalitarian practice, a practice of a totalitarian state based on a lack of respect for life. in poland today, we don't have a problem with women's rights being violated. and this debate has made that very clear. in poland, as elsewhere in the world, there is a serious moral and legal problem, namely, the dramatic issue of abortion. and you say this case is not dramatic, that it comes out of nowhere. in my view, however, the problem arises from a conflict between two principles which both you and we recognise, namely the autonomy of the human person, regardless of sex, and the right to life, regardless of age. unfortunately, in this case, the two principles are in conflict, and we all know that this is a very difficult problem to solve, and we also know that pro-life and pro-choice movements exist all over europe and all over the western world. there are also discussions in poland on this subject. the majority of polish society is taking a stand for life. (the president withdrew the floor) (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the police. is it true that the political party you represent in this parliament promised millions of poles that it would consider any citizens' project that comes to the polish sejm? is it true that without any discussion you broke your promise by rejecting the "save the women" project at the request of my political leader, who exposed your hypocrisy? and is it true that you broke that promise for the second time today by rejecting yet another civic project, ordo iuris, without any discussion, after a game of appearances?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to point out that mr jurek asked for a formal question, but as for your question, you may not have noticed, you can check it on the european parliament's website, that i am a non-party member, but i am a minor one. i represent the republic of poland, all poles, just like you, just like you. but as for what you asked, i would say this: i think it is our obligation, yours and mine, to listen to the citizens and to pass these laws, to take into account these citizen initiatives that are being reported. as you know, the votes on these two citizens' initiatives were guided by conscience, not party discipline. i don't know why the polish parliament voted that way. the polish sejm... (the president cut off the speaker)
i'd like to ask why the president is so selective about giving out blue cards. i understand that one person, but i would like to ask a very important question regarding the polish legal system, ms. arena. but unfortunately, the chairwoman didn't give me a vote... (the president cut off the speaker)
you remember the heated debate a few months ago in the european parliament about what happened in germany on new year's eve, about how german women were humiliated, how they were sexually assaulted, raped and beaten. do you remember that debate? you don't remember that debate because it didn't happen, because you decided then that it wasn't a topic worth talking about, and these were the real problems of women being humiliated in their humanity that i'm hearing about here. the european parliament did not have the courage to speak out against these humiliated women. it is an example of the double standards that i have heard about here. but there is a form of hypocrisy involved. and finally, we in this parliament will have our differences. that's obvious, that's what parliament is for. but i would ask for a basic respect for the facts. it wasn't the polish government's initiative. please don't ever say that, because it's just a lie. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. of course, unlike some of the ladies who are no longer here, such as mrs wikström, i will answer this question. of course, not a debate like this, and if you don't see the problem of german women, that they were humiliated, beaten, raped, then i will tell you honestly, tell it to the germans!
i am speaking on behalf of the polish delegation, the delegation in the social democratic group, that is, on behalf of the members of the alliance of the democratic left and the labour union. i want to emphasize very strongly that i am not voting against poland. i am speaking out for the rights of polish women, and therefore i am speaking out for human rights and human dignity. opponents of this debate have repeatedly stressed that the european parliament has no right to speak on worldview issues. parliament has no right to adopt legislation in the area of worldview, but it has a duty to speak out when the rights of women, citizens of the european union, are threatened. that's why we'll never be silent on this matter. we will use every legal venue to express our solidarity with polish women and to show them that they are not alone and that we are with them. and that place for us is the european parliament's chamber. we just learned that a committee in the polish sejm is proposing that the house reject a bill to tighten abortion laws. question: is this a belated reflection or fear of mass protests and the screaming blackness of polish women? i'm asking people to answer that question for themselves. we've won the battle, but we've got a whole battle ahead of us. the sejm is supposed to decide according to its conscience, as we know, but the poles have their own conscience and they have the right to make their own decisions. if there are any further attempts to escalate, we will appeal to the will of the sovereign, the people. (the president withdrew the floor) (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! i would like to ask a question which has already been raised by the citizens' platform mep and to which we have not received an answer. you asked whether the european parliament was competent to debate this matter today and, in order to help answer that question, i would just like to point out that less than three years ago, on 4 december 2013, our entire european parliament voted here in this house on mrs estreli's resolution on reproductive and sexual health and the law in this area, where in the first paragraph we voted, and i quote: (the president cut off the speaker)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. ambassador, with all due respect, i'm answering, perhaps explaining. a resolution is not a law. it is also a kind of parliament's opinion.
i'm taking the floor on a formal matter. please do not apply double standards here, too. i understand that there may be differences of opinion, but mrs. in tveld used both the blue card procedure and the floor. then why are you denying this right to the deputy? because he has different opinions? i hope not. please apply a truly equal measure to all. and i'm here to tell you that the speaker has misled our parliament. there was no debate about the violation of women's rights in germany, but in cologne. those are euphemisms. we wanted a debate on women's rights in germany, but there was no debate.
madam president! a polish midwife said: "i am a woman with two grown daughters. i can't help but wonder what would happen to them if the law were to be passed. i'm also a midwife, so i have the closest contact with the birth parents. i'm going to be there for the most intimate moments of their lives. i'm witnessing unimaginable happiness, but also unimaginable tragedy. i see a woman give birth to a very sick child, then scream in despair, and the child's father kicks the wall in helplessness. but they chose to have the baby. it would be bestiality to condemn everyone. finally, i would like to remind the law and justice mps, and especially the ministers of the law and justice government, that the most important issue in europe is the rule of law and civil liberties. i am ashamed that for the third time in the last ten months, the european arena is touched by the issues of the pis governments violating and violating the rights of polish citizens. you are ruining the legacy of a generation of poles who for 25 years have built poland's brand and position in europe.
first of all, i would like to thank the members of the law and justice party for recognizing the achievements of the platform government and the psl in improving the situation of women in poland, because we have actually managed to do a lot in this matter. and now the facts, ladies and gentlemen: 230 lawmakers of the pis, including many ministers, supported a citizens' bill tightening abortion laws. you spoke about human dignity, about life, about protecting life. today you were afraid of the women's protest, you were afraid of this debate in parliament and quickly rejected this bill at the request of the law and justice mp. today the women in poland won, but in reality you show that you are hypocrites, that there is no sanctity for you, that you are able to do anything for the poles and support and out of fear, and this is the misfortune of poland today. shame on you!
in writing. the debate on women's rights in poland, organised in response to an appeal by women's organisations, showed the strength of women's solidarity, whose rights are still being questioned by key actors in public life and even by those in power in some european countries. women are a minority in the governing bodies, so to achieve an effect, to show their strength, they are turning to such a powerful tool of influence as transnational and trans-party solidarity. the black protest, in which polish women protested against the announcement of the introduction of an extremely restrictive, barbaric, even law completely banning abortion, moved the whole of europe, social media and spread widely to various institutions and grassroots groups outside the european union. it showed that women, although still under-represented, have a powerful influence. poles, being highly educated, enterprising and active, organized this spontaneous protest precisely because they know their rights and have enough knowledge and courage to use the available means to block harmful, human rights-violating legislative ideas of politicians and activists who have chosen to ignore european, national and un laws on civil rights, women's rights and equality. polish women have shown the strength of women's engagement and have set an example to women across europe that effective advocacy and the implementation of often ignored demands is possible through solidarity and active participation in public debate.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. almost a year ago, an event of great historical significance took place in paris. the vast majority of countries around the world have agreed to take collective action to reduce the impact of man-made greenhouse gas emissions on the atmosphere. today, the agreement is almost ready to enter into force, as it will reach the thresholds for its entry into force once ratified by the european union. i have to admit that i myself am surprised at the pace at which countries that have not been known for their ambitious climate policies, such as china, the united states, india, have ratified. however, as far as the united states is concerned, the impact of the upcoming presidential election on the status of the agreement is uncertain. but it's worth remembering the reasons why: first, you probably remember that at one point, the word 'decarbonisation' was the subject of tough negotiations. many countries objected to the word because they saw the need to reduce emissions, but they felt they could do so without completely abandoning coal, which is a cheap and available resource and which modern technologies are reducing significantly. the union had to back down, and they did the right thing, because otherwise there would have been no deal. second, the agreement equates emission reductions with actions to increase the potential to absorb them. thus, states can exploit their natural predispositions and strengths without being forced to take specific actions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, transparency in the functioning of the european institutions has always been a matter of interest, but also of concern, for its citizens, and it is also essential for the democratic legitimacy of the european union. for this parliament, transparency has been the top priority since the first day of our work. it is a fact of life that huge interests are at stake when laws are proposed. european citizens have the right to know which interest representatives are involved in, in each phase of european decision—making. while our duty is to listen to all those whose interests will be affected by decisions we take, the right of citizens is to know whom we listen to. this interinstitutional agreement proposed by the commission is the way to answer their concerns. the establishment of a mandatory transparency register framework would be a major step forward in enhancing transparency of our decision—making and the democratic accountability of the european institutions. you might remember that the european parliament was the first european institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at european level, as well as potential consequences of this evolution for the legislative process. today, i am convinced that the commission proposal for a mandatory transparency register framework covering the three institutions will take us forward but the european parliament and, in particular, its committee on constitutional affairs, which is responsible for interinstitutional agreements, is fully aware that the mandatory register is only one of the key tools for having more transparency in the eu institutions. we are happy the commission has come to parliament with a proposal that received strong support in public consultation. so let me conclude by stressing that only by working together across all areas of european responsibilities will the european institutions win back the trust of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank commissioner timmermans for presenting the new proposals for an interinstitutional agreement on transparency and to encourage greater courage and consistency, because we cannot stop at creating new mechanisms for registering lobbyists, but we must go further in the same spirit, in the same direction as the report by mr giegold, of necessarily recording all lobbying meetings, but all with a legislative footprint. i would be very pleased if the european commission were the first to declare that it will include in its legislative reports the influence of lobbying organisations on the content of legislative decisions. i therefore urge you to be more courageous and adopt more precise mechanisms. i also hope that the sven giegolde report will be approved by a majority in parliament.
in writing. the transparency register was set up in 2011. although it has been in operation for five years and has about 10 000 organisations, and is regulated by a code of conduct agreed by these organisations, the registration is still voluntary and the mechanisms to safeguard the decision-making process are imperfect. therefore, all those involved in the transparency efforts in this area should be acknowledged: the european parliament, and in particular the committees competent in their sphere of responsibility, the european ombudsman, the commission and the council. the announcement of the identification of the list of activities and entities already covered by the mandatory register should be welcomed. it is also important to propose an extension of the data coverage, an improvement of the monitoring mechanism and, very importantly, an effective enforcement. the proposed changes will certainly serve to improve the transparency of the functioning of the european institutions. transparency is not only a matter of concern to citizens and ngos acting on their behalf, but above all it is essential in the process of building trust in the european institutions. transparency is also a very important component of prevention, allowing the prevention of threats to the interests of the european union at every stage of decision-making. the implementation of the commission's proposal for a mandatory register for transparency will be a major step towards openness in public life and a very important part of the openness system.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to congratulate you on a very thorough and well-researched report. the most frequently identified risks to human health associated with materials and articles intended to come into contact with food relate mainly to the penetration of small-molecule substances into food. this is the migration of unreacted or not fully reacted monomers or other additives used in the production process, and in particular during the processing of plastics. since 2002, the european commission has noted as many as 2000 notifications of materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs which did not fully comply with the legal requirements and safety criteria and which posed or could pose a risk to human health. therefore, not only as a doctor but above all as a consumer, i fully support the provisions in the report on better and increased consumer protection, by lowering specific migration limits, such as the planned changes to the biosphenol a range, although i realise that the implementation timeline can be troublesome because of the sometimes lack of appropriate research and sometimes because of the lack of alternatives to replace these packaging with others.
madam president! at the last plenary session, president juncker, in his state of the union address, stressed that our agriculture is a very important part of the european community. i can't argue with that. our farmers grow and produce the healthiest, most diverse and safest products. it is therefore essential that this highest quality is maintained and protected at the next steps in the supply chain. the safety of food contact materials is one of the decisive factors here. this is a very complex issue and can be a major challenge for packaging manufacturers. it is therefore also important that the rules in this area are clear. i think the 2004 regulation provides a good legal framework. however, it is concerned that special measures have so far been adopted for only four of the 17 substances listed in the annex to the regulation. i believe that greater harmonisation of rules at european union level would have a positive impact on the level of food protection and consumer safety and, consequently, on the functioning of the common market. as with the rules on plastics, the new specific rules should address the issue of recycled materials, as they can potentially pose a different type of hazard. this includes, for example, accidental contamination from previous uses of packaging. the second issue, which the rapporteur rightly drew attention to, is the degree to which existing legislation is implemented and enforced in the member states. the commission should first examine the difficulties encountered by national authorities and manufacturers and should make efforts to facilitate their implementation and compliance with these regulations.
in writing. implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food. it has long been known that not only the composition of food but also the packaging of food affects our health and quality of life. the researchers found about 170 chemicals in the packaging, such as: biosphenol a, phthalates, styrene, triclosan, formaldehyde, and pfcs (perfluorocarbons), which migrate freely into food and then have a significant impact on our hormonal balance, causing obesity, diabetes, neurological and inflammatory disorders, and cancer. in addition, no one nor the packaging manufacturer or the food is obliged to indicate the chemical composition of the packaging, and furthermore, the potential cellular or hormonal changes caused by these chemicals are not taken into account in the routine toxicological analysis, which raises serious doubts as to the correctness of the currently existing chemical regulatory procedures. it is therefore essential that legislation be adopted as soon as possible to mobilise packaging manufacturers to remove substances harmful to health from the packaging production process as well as from the food itself as soon as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this report was drawn up in full agreement, with a high degree of convergence of views, and draws attention to the fact that delays and irregularities in transposition constitute a barrier to the internal market and are contrary to the interests of citizens: both employers and employees. therefore, efforts should be made to reduce these delays. this reduction and improvement can be achieved by analysing the causes of delays, and by working with the member states and social partners, exchanging information and good practice. in this context, the commission welcomes the effectiveness of eu pilot activities and the introduction of webpages to inform about them, with a full database of infringements, and to inform about the application of union law. the commission notes the need to keep existing legislation under constant review in the light of the subsidiarity principle, as excessive regulation can be harmful to employers and the labour market. and in the context of these previous points, the empl committee draws attention to the fact that the appointment of the first vice-president of the european commission responsible for the application of the law, the rule of law and fundamental rights is very much in line with the objectives that are presented here.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. it might seem that after so many years of the community's existence, the process of monitoring the implementation of community law in the legal systems of the member states is a routine matter, that it is just something we have to do for the sake of order. the reality is quite the opposite. there are several reasons for this, but the main one is that the member states are still so slightly suspicious of what we are doing with the european council at community level. this uncertainty, and the approach to such a system of additional control, leads to the imposition of entirely unnecessary national rules on those which are created at european union level. and the point of informing the citizens is that it is these bad officials and this parliament and council somewhere in brussels who are making the law that we have to deal with now, and you are unfortunately the people who are most affected by it. i strongly object to this. we are trying to make the law, together with the council, transparent and above all necessary and effective for our citizens and businesses, because it is supposed to make their lives easier. this is why we involve national parliaments in the legislative process at an early stage, to avoid any misunderstanding or attempt to approach established community law in one way or another later on. i am therefore very pleased that the european commission is taking the problem of monitoring legislation seriously and is pointing out the shortcomings that are being reported by both citizens and businesses. i would also like to thank very warmly our rapporteur, heidi hautala, who has once again produced an excellent report, which highlights the main areas of concern today.
madam president! in 2014, the european commission received 3 715 complaints about alleged breaches of eu law and launched 893 new infringement procedures against member states. between 2010 and 2014, 3 550 proceedings were initiated because of the late transposition of 439 directives by member states. the most frequent infringement procedures were in the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services. the annual report also highlighted the fact that the number of formal proceedings had decreased over the past five years. according to the commission, this is a result that reflects the effectiveness of the structured dialogue with the member states through the eu pilot procedure. however, the european parliament still has relatively limited access to this procedure and ongoing proceedings. the enforcement of union law itself is still not sufficiently transparent. the european parliament should also play a greater role in examining the compliance of applicant countries with the law and those with which the european union has already signed association agreements. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good document.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i was in rwanda, not just me in our parliament, and i have to say that one of the most moving experiences of my political career was being present, visiting the genocide museum in rwanda's capital, kigali. a country with such a tragic history - we were talking here about the genocide that occurred as a result of the war between the hutu and tutsi tribes - must, at least in my opinion, and perhaps in our opinion, in a special way respect human rights, including the rights of the opposition. and i think it's good that we have this debate today, it's good that we're defending people who are wrongfully imprisoned, and that's kind of our moral duty, but also to show rwanda that our humanitarian aid to that country over the years should result in expecting certain standards to be met.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am grateful to you for raising the case of victoire ingabire. as you are aware, and many of you have said so, ms victoire ingabire was sentenced in october 2012 to eight years in prison, having been arrested and detained on several charges, and her sentence was then extended to 15 years by the supreme court of rwanda in december 2013, following appeals by both prosecution and defence. we in the commission, and the high representative, are of course very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has already passed a resolution on the case of victoire ingabire and that members of the committee on women’s rights (femm) requested a prison visit during your visit to kigali and that request was rejected by the rwandan authorities. the european union, both the eeas and individual eu member states, have followed closely the situation of ms ingabire since her arrival in rwanda in 2010 to run for president, and this period has included her detention, her hearings and her imprisonment since then. the court cases where observed by members of the eu diplomatic community, as well as a lawyer commissioned by the netherlands to analyse the trial. as you know, ms ingabire has filed an appeal with the african union court of human and people’s rights where her case is pending, despite the recent decision of rwanda to withdraw from a special declaration that allows for the deposition of individual cases against the rwandan authorities. the eu will continue to follow closely the process and the outcome of this appeal, which we hope will be allowed to run its course, and here i do note the concern of the house and the resolution that the appeal should be prompt and fair. conditions of detention are a matter of concern. we insist that ms ingabire receive fair treatment in a prison facility, and that she continues to be regularly visited by members of her political party, as well as representatives of the eu diplomatic community. this is not only an issue of comfort; it is important that she should feel safe in prison and that she has access to the medicines she needs and access to legal advice. in the ingabire case, the eu insists that due legal process be followed, that international obligations are respected and that all the rights of the defendant, including in appeals, are fully ensured. overall, we maintain a continuous political dialogue with rwanda on a number of issues, including justice. rwanda has a managed a remarkable transformation, not only in economic reforms, but also in the area of representation of women in parliament and also in the governance of the country. these are important achievements. let there be no mistake, we have a lot to learn here, but this should not stop us from speaking frankly with our partners on the issues that are of concern. the link between justice and political space is especially sensitive and we do have concerns which we have expressed to our rwandan partners on the judicial treatment of some opposition actors. at the same time, we also note that several international bodies have concluded that trials in the country are generally consistent with internationally recognised fair trial standards, and i am glad that in the draft resolution here you have expressed your respect for the independence of rwanda’s judicial system. we will from the eu and the member states continue to engage with the rwandan authorities over the rule of law and further reform of the justice system in the country, as well as reform of the legal framework as to encourage widening of political space, development of a legitimate political opposition, and full exercise of political rights in the country, including freedom of speech and association. and we do so, of course, in the context of our desire to support the relevant principles in the african charter of democracy, elections and governments.
in writing. until march 2016, rwanda was one of the countries that recognised the right of citizens to bring a complaint directly to the african court on human and peoples' rights. the rwandan authorities withdrew from the group of countries that respect this principle after receiving a complaint from victoire ingabire, an activist and oppositionist. the removal of this right from individuals is a worrying sign for the international community. the intentions of the authorities of this country are clear and aim to restrict human rights, civil liberties and media freedom. president paul kagame's attempts to change the constitutional order to take power for a third time are pushing the country towards authoritarianism. this is reflected in the denial of due process to political prisoners such as victoire ingabire, as well as the denial of access, as happened in september when a delegation from the european parliament wanted to visit an opposition activist. the disappearance of social activist illuminée irageny in march 2016 and journalist john ndabarasa in august also demand a strong international response. strong action must be taken to deter the rwandan authorities from taking further action that could lead to an increase in internal tensions and even to another civil war.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in sudan has been particularly difficult for many years. three million people have been displaced by the conflict, hundreds of thousands have lost their lives, malnutrition levels are below emergency levels and more than 6.5 million people are in need of various forms of humanitarian assistance. in april, the european commission decided to provide additional aid of eur 100 million to improve the living conditions of sudanese people. i agree that this help is legitimate and very much needed. however, the very issue of reaching people in need remains a huge problem, given the deliberate blocking of access to the most affected regions. i therefore believe that the european union should strongly condemn such activities and strongly oppose the violation of international humanitarian law, as well as demand that those responsible for crimes against the civilian population be punished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9 because it covers accounting aspects of financial instruments such as classification and valuation, impairment of financial assets and collateral accounting. it is very important to ensure that the implementation of ifrs 9 is continuously monitored, which was created to prevent a crisis, which is undoubtedly crucial for ensuring economic stability. for these reasons, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ non-compliance with basic accounting standards should be recognised as one of the many causes of the financial crisis in europe. economic stagnation has highlighted the need to develop new international financial reporting standards. the new standards cover key accounting elements, including those relating to asset impairment and collateral. the rules will enter into force in january 2018. the draft resolution will allow the implementation and impact of these standards to be monitored. it is hoped that the new international financial reporting standards (ifrs) 9 will help prevent further economic crises. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the situation in syria, which i consider tragic. the death toll has exceeded 250,000, and 12 million people have been forced to flee syria. after a war that has lasted so long and has had such tragic consequences, international action is urgently needed to end the conflict. what i can do as an mep is to call for an urgent international solution to the conflict and to condemn the attacks on civilians and aid workers. i voted in favour of this because every step must be taken to bring an end to this conflict.
in writing. ‒ since the conflict in syria began in 2011, nearly half a million syrians have been killed and 11 million have been forced to flee their homes, with almost half of them leaving the country, mainly for turkey, egypt, jordan, iraq and lebanon. now we can't talk about the situation in syria as a revolution, but as an international conflict, involving various world powers and terrorist organizations. unfortunately, despite five years of diplomatic efforts by the international community, the chances of a quick resolution of the conflict seem minimal, and a political future acceptable to all parties to the conflict is impossible to chart. especially as in recent months, despite the efforts of the international community to bring an end to the hostilities, the situation has deteriorated dramatically and rapidly. the european union has repeatedly accused the assad regime of fomenting conflict and crimes against civilians, but the resolution rightly points out that president putin is also to blame for the deaths of thousands of syrian citizens, and cannot be considered a partner in peace talks. the eu's humanitarian initiative for aleppo, which aims to enable the evacuation of the wounded and sick from eastern aleppo, especially women, children and the elderly, in addition to the collection of humanitarian funds, is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ six years of war in syria have claimed 250,000 lives and displaced 12 million people. in the face of ongoing conflict, most syrians lack access to education, health and social services. in september, a ceasefire was negotiated to end airstrikes on rebel-held positions and allow both sides in the conflict to access humanitarian aid. despite these developments, syrian government forces have recently stepped up attacks, most recently bombing the country's second largest city, aleppo. there can be no end to the war without a political settlement at the international level. the european union must unite its efforts to find a solution to the conflict, which is particularly affecting the civilian population. i voted to pass the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! bad laws are not made because lawmakers have bad intentions. they have good intentions, but very often they are based on completely false, mistaken assumptions. and climate law has that characteristic. well, to expose anthropopression as a reason for establishing certain laws is very much exaggerated. this anthropopressure is very small, and the real reasons are hidden. and the real reasons are in the economic mechanisms. well, if you put a tax on carbon emissions, for example, and on emissions at some level that is currently set, for every next emission you have to pay and trade those emission rights, it means that poor countries that want to develop will have to pay countries that have developed for a long time, so we are funding a huge injustice in the world with these mechanisms and we are stopping the development of these countries and increasing poverty in the world. it's unfair and unjust. you shouldn't do that. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft resolution on the un climate conference 2016 cop 22 in marrakesh. the project content covers highly relevant environmental issues such as: reduction of non-co2 emissions, the need to reduce aviation and marine emissions, the role of climate diplomacy and the limitation of emissions leakage. i am of course in favour of tackling climate change, but i do not think it is appropriate to increase funding for the fight against climate change. the resources allocated to this purpose are, in my opinion, sufficient. the eu is facing more serious problems (which we also discussed in plenary) and should allocate funds to them. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the agreement for global climate action was adopted at the 21st conference of the parties (cop 21) on climate change in paris in december 2015. the aim of the agreement is to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and to continue to strive to limit the rise to 1.5°c. the agreement also aims to ensure that the tipping point for maximum emission levels is reached as soon as possible, so as to achieve balanced greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the second half of the 21st century. in the context of the preparations for cop 22, to be held in marrakesh from 7 to 18 november 2016, it is appropriate to consider what action should be taken by the european union and individual member states to ensure that the key elements of the paris agreement are fulfilled without harming the competitiveness of european industry. the imposition of increasingly stringent climate requirements and the successive obligations imposed on industrial enterprises in the european union are leading to a reduction in their competitive advantage on the global market. some companies will move their operations outside the eu to save their profitability. others will go bankrupt or severely limit their activities in europe. the european union should therefore play a leading role in the fight against climate change in this process, provided that it is global and not confined to europe.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out parliament's main priorities ahead of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the agreement will enter into force at cop22 in marrakech in november 2016, which is a welcome development. the resolution touches on important issues such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the need to reduce aviation and maritime emissions and reaffirms the growing importance of climate diplomacy. however, the original draft resolution was amended to call for even more ambitious climate policy targets by 2030 and thus for even more funds to be mobilised to combat climate change. i voted in favour of ratifying the paris agreement, because i believe that it sets ambitious targets and that there is no need to set ourselves even higher, exaggerated, ambitions and to allocate an additional pool of money to this end. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food. i justify my decision by saying that i see it as a good move to give parliament a greater role in resolving the discrepancies between the different chemical regulations. i support the general wording of the report on endocrine disruptors and bisphenol. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ we all have to deal with materials that come into direct contact with food: the dishes we use to eat our meals, the accessories we use to transport them, the packaging in which the finished products are sold. we often consider the ingredients and properties of the food we eat, and we choose items that we believe are safe for our food and thus do not harm our health. as food safety is a priority issue for eu policy, materials intended to come into contact with food are subject to restrictive eu rules, currently contained in regulation (ec) no 1935/2004. the safety requirements set out therein cover seventeen different materials, for which specific measures may be adopted. however, at union level, emergency measures have been adopted for only four types of materials: ceramics, cellulose, plastics and so-called 'smart materials'. for other materials, member states may adopt special provisions at their discretion. this situation unfortunately leads to the emergence of different product safety standards, disruption of the internal market, loss of competitiveness and higher food prices. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the rules, both as regards production standards and regular checks on food (including feed, which seems particularly important in the context of the asf epidemic). this will protect the health of consumers and improve the functioning of our market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there must be clear and consistent procedures at eu level for food contact materials, especially as food can be one of the most important routes for people to be exposed to chemicals. we know that materials that come into contact with food can behave in different ways depending on their composition and properties. some toxins are released by heat, others by cold temperatures, and even in the refrigerator, toxins can be introduced into food. therefore, the control procedures for such materials must be subject to continuous review, as health should be a priority value for all of us. in support of these amendments, i voted in favour of the report by christel schaldemose on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food.
in writing. ‒ food is recognised as one of the most important sources of human exposure to chemicals. therefore, the safety of food contact materials should be carefully assessed, as these substances can enter the products we consume. materials intended to come into contact with food include products such as packaging and containers, processing machinery, kitchen equipment, cutlery and utensils. it is estimated that there are about 15 000 different substances in food contact materials. the experts point to the need to urgently address the shortcomings in the implementation and enforcement of existing eu legislation, as the degree of enforcement varies widely. further harmonisation of the legislation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food could help to ensure a uniform high level of protection of public health.
in writing. ‒ food packaging, kitchen equipment and utensils are used on a daily basis. some materials intended to come into contact with food and used in large quantities may be harmful. they are therefore subject to the legally binding rules laid down in regulation (ec) no 1935/2004. that act provides that more specific safety requirements may be adopted for specific materials. so far, such rules have been developed for only 4 of the 17 types of materials. i also agree that we should improve existing legislation on risk assessment and ensure better enforcement. i voted for the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! it is worrying that the single market is one of the areas where we see the highest number of complaints and violations of eu law. in 2014, more than 600 complaints were received and more than 160 infringement cases were initiated in this area. of course, not all of them are necessarily valid, but they do point to a problem. union citizens and businesses are very often confronted with a situation which they consider to be a breach of union law. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that an easily accessible online complaint form should be created. it will allow for effective detection of breaches of union law. another very important issue is whether, within the internal market, law should be regulated by directives or by regulations. i think the answer is not clear. on the one hand, regulations ensure a more uniform implementation of legislation, which can prevent the voluntary implementation of eu rules that often leads to protectionism. on the other hand, directives allow for greater consideration of the specificities of individual member states. the european commission should analyse both of these aspects in even more detail before deciding which legal form to use. this approach will certainly improve the application of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the 2014 annual report on the control of the application of union law. as a member of a political group for which the sovereignty of each member state is a key issue, i am ambivalent about giving parliament a greater role in analysing legal developments in both accession and association countries. i also abstained because the amendments proposed by my group were rejected, and they concerned issues that were crucial to me: the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the application of eu law.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's annual report on the transposition of european law into the legal order of the member states is an important element in the construction of a harmonised legal area in the european union. i supported the report because it provides a clear analysis of the situation and makes specific recommendations, taking into account the subsidiarity aspect. timeliness and accuracy of transposition are essential for the coherence of the internal market and are in the interest of the citizens of the european union. delays or other irregularities in the implementation of european law may trigger a breach of implementation procedure, which includes a support and negotiation phase, but is gradually becoming more restrictive and may result in a judgment of the european court of justice and financial penalties for the member state in the event of evasion of implementation obligations. in the last 5 years, the eu pilot early warning system has reduced the number of infringements and a number of decisions have been taken to reinforce this approach to improving the effectiveness of implementation by setting up dedicated websites with a database of opened cases and dedicated complaint forms for individual businesses and citizens. access to information for all europeans and broad consultation of the law at an early stage are key to creating legislation that makes life easier, not harder, for citizens in all member states, and as such will be more efficient and better implemented than less consulted.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european commission received almost 4 000 complaints about alleged breaches of eu law, and acted on a quarter of them. this means that many countries still fail to meet their treaty obligations and either fail to implement eu legislation or implement it incorrectly. the timely and correct transposition of community legislation into national legislation and a clear national legislative framework should be a priority for member states in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the legal system. unfortunately, the eu institutions are also to blame for breaches of eu law, often setting unrealistic deadlines for implementing legislation, which makes it impossible for member states to comply with them. moreover, as the document indicates, the european commission should, from the outset, monitor effectively and in a timely manner how eu law is applied and implemented.
in writing. ‒ the report notes a decline in the number of infringement proceedings against member states. the european parliament does not have full information on this procedure and the outstanding cases. i think more committees should be involved in enforcement matters to better control. given the limited knowledge of members of this procedure, it is difficult to assess whether the lower number of infringement procedures reflects better compliance by member states with union law. however, i certainly support the effort to set realistic deadlines for the transposition of eu legislation into national systems. member states should have the necessary time to carry out checks and consultations before implementing directives. however, the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality should be respected in the application of eu law. these amendments were rejected during the drafting of the report. i also feel that the issue of the impact of eu law on competitiveness has not been adequately addressed. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11. i believe that no new genetically modified food or feed should be allowed under the current legal framework. this framework is one of the most restrictive in the world when it comes to risk assessment for gm crops and foods, which i'm pleased to say. i think that should remain the same, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect. i have doubts whether the commission should allow the placing on the market of further genetically modified food and feed. that's why i voted against the introduction of bt11 maize seeds and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507. i believe that no new genetically modified food or feed should be allowed under the current legal framework. this framework is one of the most restrictive in the world when it comes to risk assessment for gm crops and foods, which i'm pleased to say. i think that should remain unchanged, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect. i have doubts whether the commission should allow the placing on the market of further genetically modified food and feed. that's why i voted against the introduction of 1507 corn seed and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds. i believe that no new genetically modified food or feed should be allowed under the current legal framework. this framework is one of the most restrictive in the world when it comes to risk assessment for gm crops and foods, which i'm pleased to say. i think that should remain the same, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect. i have doubts whether the commission should allow the placing on the market of further genetically modified food and feed. that is why i voted against the introduction of mon 810 maize seeds and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection concerning the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize mon 810. i believe that no new genetically modified food or feed should be allowed under the current legal framework. this framework is one of the most restrictive in the world when it comes to risk assessment for gm crops and foods, which i'm pleased to say. i think that should remain unchanged, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ committee on the environment, public health and food safety genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect. i have doubts whether the commission should allow the placing on the market of further genetically modified food and feed. i have opposed the renewal of the authorisation for mon 810 maize seeds and supported the opposition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton seed 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913. i believe that no new genetically modified food or feed should be allowed under the current legal framework. this framework is one of the most restrictive in the world when it comes to risk assessment for gm crops and foods, which i'm pleased to say. i think that should remain unchanged, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect. i have doubts whether the commission should allow the placing on the market of further such genetically modified food and feed. this also applies to certain products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton. therefore, i supported the objection.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we meet at a special time today. on tuesday, we agreed to the ratification of the paris climate agreement by the member states. this is certainly good news in the context of the fight against climate change, as it gives an ambitious direction to low-carbon innovation, which can be a very strong development impulse for the european union as a whole. however, investments in a low-carbon economy require significant financial commitments. i know that the european commission is currently investigating the barriers faced by companies in terms of access to innovation funding. commissioner, this is a very good direction to take to ensure the most effective and widely available funding. investing in new technologies, especially in energy, is a huge challenge for those countries whose economies are still based on traditional energy sources such as coal. it is therefore pleased that the european commission is supporting member states in their efforts to combat global warming. however, due to the limitations of public financial resources, it is private investment that is becoming particularly important in the context of financing new technologies. in this context, it will be extremely important for the commission to use the full potential of the european fund for strategic investments and other sources to unfreeze private funds. europe needs significant, long-term and sustainable investment to improve productivity and move to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy. the efsi also operates in conjunction with other european union funds and in the context of the capital markets union, giving a new impetus to this change by increasing the number and size of sustainable projects to be funded in line with the ambitious goals of the paris climate agreement. therefore, a significant contribution from the efsi to the financing of this type of project should be ensured. a low-carbon economy means moving to a completely new reality, especially in countries where the use of fossil fuels, the main source of greenhouse gas emissions, is very deeply rooted. a well-designed strategy for the transition to low-carbon energy can be a very powerful development impetus, both for all european countries and for the union as a whole. however, to do so, the strategy should be tailored to the socioeconomic realities of the country and take into account the changing global context, geopolitical situation, energy basket and access to raw materials. the local dimension should also be taken into account in the development of financial instruments and capital markets to support the transition to a clean technology-based economy. this is why the european commission should particularly support the development of financial instruments targeting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which very often have difficulty in accessing finance and which are key players in local markets. let us also remember that the benefits of moving to a low-carbon economy and an economy based on, for example, clean coal technologies, often involve investments in new, highly skilled jobs. in the context of sustainable finance, the impact of supported investments on national and local labour markets is hugely important. through financial instruments, we should support those sectors that have the potential to grow further and those that indirectly generate additional jobs. it is also important to ensure funding for investment in skills and adequate retraining and upskilling of workers. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that my region is currently undergoing the largest infrastructure investment in poland - the construction of two new power units with a total capacity of 1 800 megawatts, which will ensure the stability and security of electricity supply in my country and provide hundreds of new jobs. however, all of this would not have been possible without adequate funding and the creation of a consortium that would meet the capital requirements. unfortunately, this investment has been criticised here in this house, and i have spoken out against it. i would remind you that opole power plant was the first in poland to implement emas in 2005. it is a modern source of electricity and heat. the negative impact on the environment is minimised and the installations used reduce dust emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and noise. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commissioner, in support of the commission's initiative, whether the european commission considers that the commission's proposal is compatible with the treaty. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, as we know, the aim of this proposal was to harmonise the approach to the enforcement of customs legislation and particularly to sanctions for infringements. at the moment, customs rules across the eu are the same under the union’s customs code, but when those rules are infringed, enforcement follows 28 different sets of legal rules and administrative traditions. that creates inconsistency within member states and can generate uncertainty for businesses. i am happy with the text that we are going to vote on this week. first of all, there will be no fixed minimum sanction for minor infringements, and secondly, for both minor and serious infringements, the financial fine should be imposed as a percentage of the duties evaded. the report also allows for the possibility, where the nature and the gravity of infringements so require, for member states to impose criminal sanctions in accordance with national laws instead of non-criminal sanctions as provided for by the directive . i believe that with this text we are ready for further negotiations with the council and the commission.
madam president! against the background of documents such as the ban ki-moon report to the general assembly in september, a resolution of the united states congress and numerous reports by think tanks, the report that richard howitt is presenting to the european parliament seems to be insufficiently balanced. as a pole, i respect and value the iranians, and my remarks are directed at the regime of the republic of iran. in 1988, there were mass executions of political opponents, so mass that they were genocidal. those responsible for these murders are now in high positions, and the executions of de facto political opponents continue to this day, as do the executions of juveniles. iran's role, both in the region and globally, is hardly a stabilizing one. this country is charged with funding terrorism. to colleagues who are guided by the vision of trade, i would like to remind you that the economic sector in iran is dominated by the revolutionary guard, and organizations such as the fatf advise the utmost caution in undertaking this type of relationship.
can't you see you're being ridiculous? the european union, which is seven years old and has 30 billion in debt, internal and external problems, is telling a country with four thousand years of tradition what to do? you teach iran to abolish the death penalty and to respect the constitution, when the constitution of iran mandates the use of the death penalty. you say they have to get rid of the atom, but we know countries like pakistan, israel, america, that have nuclear weapons and are quite civilized. you say iran should abolish the death penalty, but we know countries like the us, japan -- very civilized -- that have the death penalty because you have a colonial mentality. just as you taught africans how to live a hundred years ago, so you teach proud persians how to live now. they don't have to listen to this, thankfully. what would you say if iran held a conference, read these european union documents and said that the eu needs to reinstate the death penalty in order to become a civilized country again? who told you that eu values are better than iranian values? who told you that? you are imperialists who do not tolerate differences, and besides, i think the european union must be destroyed.
madam president! the iran nuclear deal was good news amongst a lot of very bad news from the region and around the european union. the good news was not just the deal itself, but the implementation process, which was the process of building trust between the partners. the external action service is the unquestioned credit. all the knowledge that i have gained as head of the delegation on iran in the european parliament tells me that there is no better way to support the forces that we call reformist than to open iran to the world and cooperate in the broadest possible fields. there is no better option. this is also borne out by the new composition of the 'match list', i.e. the european parliament, which was formed after the conclusion of the agreement. now it is important that the average man, the "man in the street" in tehran, feels the effects of this opening in his standard of living. of course, it is not easy to find a balance between geopolitical and economic interests and the defence of values that we will never renounce. mr howitts' report is a search for that balance. he points to areas of cooperation that is, economies with narrow designations such as banking, environmental protection, energy, and the fight against drug trafficking but also talks about differences, and he names them: the number of death sentences, the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities, and iran's unsatisfactory role as a stabilizer in the region. i am deeply convinced that in relations with iran, the opportunities outweigh the risks.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing a report today that deals with a very difficult issue. on the one hand, of course, it is the result of the agreement signed a year ago in vienna with iran, which eliminates, i hope, one of the countries that may have nuclear weapons and threaten others. on the other hand, this agreement - and much time has been spent on it - offers an opportunity to strengthen economic cooperation between the european union and iran. this is a matter of great importance to both sides, including the iranian people and the peoples of our member states. both require diversification of energy sources, such as gas and oil. this agreement offers huge opportunities for mutual investment, which may not be in the hundreds of billions of euros, but in the trillions. but there are values more important than economic growth or even jobs, and that supreme value is undoubtedly peace. but iran is not the country that has created security, on the contrary, it was the country that threatened security in the region and in the world. i therefore believe that we must strive to implement this agreement and increase economic exchange, trade exchange, investment exchange, but also to monitor carefully the state of implementation on the iranian side. this state is at odds with the values that are essential to our civilization, and therefore it cannot guarantee peace in the region and in the world until economic issues can prevail over our cooperation.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on this comprehensive, balanced and deep analysis of the issue of human rights and migration in third countries. no state or organisation can escape from its obligations under international human rights law to protect and ensure respect for the human rights of migrants, irrespective of their status. we live in a world of seven billion people, with dramatic demographic imbalances, where inequalities are still growing. migration is here to stay. migration is the new normal and is now an integral part of our political dialogue with partners, very much in line with the global strategy. it took a while before europe accepted its responsibilities, but we are finally doing so. since 2015 our vessels have saved hundreds of thousands of lives in the mediterranean. operation sophia is disrupting the traffickers’ networks and bringing the smugglers to justice. in turkey, in lebanon and in jordan we are helping over half a million syrian children go back to school. the protection of the most vulnerable – the women and children – is at the core of our action in each and every initiative we take. we remain the largest development donor and humanitarian actor. we are, despite criticism, leading by example. faced with so much human suffering, we need to respond and we are responding. but we know there is no quick fix to the issue of migration. our new partnership framework (pf) approach reflects just this fact. it is an ambitious and innovative comprehensive approach, fully embedding migration in our overall foreign policy. it is not, as some wrongly believe, only about return or readmission. it is also about countering migrant smuggling and, not least, addressing the root causes of migration. the approach, being tailor-made and holistic, uses all our high-level instruments and leverage to achieve our goals. in fact it represents a new methodology based on genuine partnership. the partnership addresses everything from security, return, readmission, resilience and job creation to infrastructure, investments and border management. first of all the pf approach, well received by our partners, has created a positive momentum in our dialogue with the countries in question. they do not see it either as us imposing a unilateral agenda; they do not see it as return becoming the only objective of our cooperation; and, rightly so, because the pf approach is indeed about mutually beneficial partnership and it marks a new way of engaging with our partner countries. the results we see are twofold, both in terms of better understanding european union priorities and willingness to cooperate in practice and in terms of the specific tangible outcomes as you will have seen in the report of the euco. of course we do not operate in a political vacuum and european union action must be seen as part of the bigger picture. the united nations migration-related events during the un general assembly gave high visibility and great political momentum to the migration dossier. the new york declaration for refugees and migrants, adopted at the united nations summit on 19 september 2016 by all 193 united nations member states, forms an important step in providing for a global political framework to address large movements of refugees and migrants in all aspects. we are pleased to see the notion of responsibility-sharing and the importance of international cooperation in response to migration and refugee flows reflected in the outcome. the establishment of a global compact for refugees and a global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration in the coming two years will be an important next step in moving this important agenda forward. the outcome documents closely reflect the european union priorities and policies. we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring effective implementation of the political declaration and reaffirm our engagement in the upcoming negotiation of the global compact for migration, to be concluded by 2018. the european union was able to transmit a positive narrative and show in new york that it has done more than anyone else to address migratory challenges, as well as to demonstrate its commitment towards the principle of global responsibility-sharing through the partnership framework approach, supported by the new innovative european external investment plan. we shall now capitalise on this positive momentum and continue to show a strong, united european union position also in the follow-up and the shaping of the future two global united nations compacts. all member states therein also expressed their intention to expand the number and ranges of legal powers available for refugees to be admitted to or resettled in their territory. the union resettlement framework the commission proposed could facilitate this. this is about developing a harmonised approach to resettlement at european union level, to provide safe pathways to europe for people in need of protection, replacing irregular and dangerous migrant crossings and preventing the smugglers from taking advantage of the most vulnerable. the contributions of each member state under the annual union resettlement plan will depend on member states’ contribution and engagement in the committee. we need the full support of member states on this. we also need a robust asylum system that will be able to face, not only the challenges of today, but also those in the years to come. keeping the status quo of our asylum system was not an option. the commission has put all the elements on the table to reform it. now it is time for the co-legislators to show their commitment to finding a long-term sustainable solution. the inclusion of migration in the recently adopted 2030 sustainable development agenda is therefore an important milestone. in this context the european union continues to promote a development-oriented approach towards forced displacement. we want to increase the self-reliance and resilience of refugees in their host communities with the aim of ending dependence on humanitarian aid. facilitating migration and improving migration policies, as called for in the 2013 sustainable development goals, will allow livelihoods to be improved and will enhance access for refugees to education, job markets, health and housing. as set out in the european action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019 and in line with the global approach to migration and mobility in the european agenda on migration, the european union and its member states are committed to enhancing human rights safeguards in all migration and mobility dialogues and cooperation frameworks with third countries and migration-related agreements, processes and programmes. in line with the european union action plan, the european union also continues to address the issue of statelessness in relations with priority countries, namely speaking out on situations of statelessness that manifest an immediate and human rights problem and supports the unhcr’s mandate and activities. migration and the fight against terrorism remain overwhelmingly the main priorities for european union action, as confirmed at the informal gac of 24-25 july this year. the updated european union syria/iraq regional strategy includes important projects in the fields of humanitarian aid, resilience and stabilisation. it calls for the respect of human rights and accountability, peace-building, gender and minority issues and condemns violations of international humanitarian law, the atrocities, killings and human rights abuses that daesh is perpetrating. within the gender action plan gap ii in european union external relations for the period 2016-2020, gender is placed at the centre of all forms of european union external relations. it commits the european union to implementing actions ensuring girls’ and women’s physical and psychological integrity, promoting their economic and social rights. together with like-minded partners, the european union will work for the elimination of all forms of violence against women, including sexual and gender-based violence in conflict and for ending impunity. all perpetrators must be brought to justice. as ms vergiat rightly pointed out, access to effective remedies for victims of migration-related human rights abuses is an issue on which further progress is still required. in this context, i would like to point out that the right to effective remedy is one of the issues dealt with in the new regulation on the european border and coast guard. this regulation respects fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised by articles 2 and 3 of the teu and reflected in the charter. in particular, it seeks to ensure full respect for human dignity, liberty and security. return of irregular migrants who do not have the right to stay in the european union to their home countries in full respect of the principle of non-refoulement is an essential part of the european union’s comprehensive efforts to address migration. in the implementation of the european union action plan on return, the european union seeks to be compliant with international human rights standards, in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 1951 united nations refugee convention and its 1967 protocol. a holistic approach to migration and the cross-cutting principle of non-discrimination are the conditions for the effective respect of the human rights of migrants. our community needs to be based on integration and diversity and on the inclusion of social, cultural, linguistic and religious minorities. xenophobia, discrimination, violence and hate speech have no place. let me thank the honourable members once again for this important contribution to the debate on human rights and migration in third countries and for your excellent report.
in writing. the migration crisis is dynamic and requires flexibility and the ability to modify our policies. today, i am pleased to see a change in the original position of germany and the other western european countries, which have seen the naivety of their first fatal steps: accepting any number of migrants without criticism and pushing a programme of forced relocation of refugees to all eu countries. better late than never although poland, the czech republic or hungary should hear an apology today from those who a year ago called us egoists, who are not mature enough to be in europe. against this background, the report submitted is surprisingly outdated. the rapporteur does not distinguish between refugees and migrant workers, calls for far-reaching eu interference in the legal systems of the member states, lays out the need to create 'legal migration routes' and criticises the readmission mechanism at eu borders, calling for 'voluntary returns to be given priority over forced returns'. the rapporteur therefore calls for the eu to welcome as many migrants as it wants to bring to its territory and to provide them with social welfare, education and employment. the ecr cannot afford to be caught off guard. we express our solidarity with those forced to flee their country because of conflict, persecution or extreme poverty. however, the solutions proposed by the rapporteur to the ongoing crisis are a step backwards and show that the warning example of the calais jungle has taught some nothing.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr corrao is an important voice in the international debate on corporate social responsibility. and this debate has been productive, not for the first time, in this room too, because five years ago the un unanimously adopted guidelines on business and human rights. the difficult process of implementing these guidelines is under way and we agree that the union, together with the companies involved, is a leader in this area. following this resolution, an open intergovernmental working group has started work on a legally binding international instrument in this field, and i think that in principle we should welcome solutions with an international dimension, not just european, because only then can we speak of their effective operation. it should also be noted that one size fits all does not apply to all categories of enterprises, that the 'one size fits all' approach does not apply here, that the largest multinational corporations have more obligations than small and medium-sized enterprises.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking this house, and in particular the rapporteur, mr gyürk, for his important work on this crucial file. the commission is fully in line with these conclusions and is ready to act upon the specific challenges highlighted in the report. as the report rightly outlines, this study can have a transformative effect on reinforcing our energy security and boosting our competitiveness by providing access to liquid hubs and a diverse range of gas sources. but before i go into some of the detail, i think it is worth recalling some of the principles which underpin our strategy. first, the diversification of the natural gas supply is a strategic objective of the european union as domestic production declines further down the road. the commission’s lng and gas storage strategy aims to exploit the potential of liquefied natural gas and gas storage to make the european union gas system more diverse and flexible, thus contributing to the key energy union objective of a secure, resilient and competitive gas supply. lng can also bring benefits in terms of competitiveness as gas markets become exposed to more competition from international suppliers. in some cases the impact can be significant, as in the case of lithuania. furthermore, lng also has the potential in some cases to reduce environmental impacts, especially in the transport sector. let me reiterate: the european union’s lng strategy was conceived with our paris climate commitments in mind. the truth is that natural gas is likely to remain an important source for our energy mix as one possible solution for a flexible energy system which includes responsive generation, demand response, grids and storage. as we work on decarbonising our economy, renewables will become more prominent in the european union’s energy mix, while gas will maintain its role with around 24-25%, pushing out other more polluting fossil fuels. that is why achieving our goals on diversity of gas supplies in every european union member state or liquid competitive markets and in meeting the needs of citizens and industry is of cardinal importance. we pursue this diversification objective on three priority axes: opening the southern gas corridor, developing an east mediterranean gas hub, and taking the opportunity provided by the positive developments of the global lng market. these axes together will considerably contribute to increased competition and a downward pressure on european gas prices. we believe that a functioning and fully-integrated liquid market is the best way to achieve our gas security objectives by making the european union attractive for suppliers and keeping prices under control through enhanced competition. that is why this strategy focuses on completing the internal gas market, both in terms of infrastructure as well as market rules, in order to provide diversification to the most vulnerable regions of the european union. now on to some of the specific points raised in the report. we welcome that mr gyürk’s report also acknowledges the importance of the established regional high-level groups in these vulnerable regions. it is only through targeted action and cooperation that we can best meet the needs of each region. these same groups are also best placed to discuss the prioritisation of infrastructure projects that can address the particular challenges. there is a successful cesec high-level group that brings together member states and energy community countries in central and south-east europe, has identified six key priority projects and already approve an action plan of regulatory solutions that we propose in our lng strategy to make them happen. the bemip high-level group is working on a similar action plan that we will deliver before the end of the year, but i could also mention the work of the south-west high level group in the iberian peninslua. on stranded assets, let me say that we are fully aware of the risks here, given today’s constantly changing environment. we need to be mindful of which infrastructure investment we follow through and should focus on only delivering those infrastructure projects that are absolutely essential to security of supply. this is also what we propose in this strategy. a limited number of key infrastructure mainly aiming at connecting to existing import terminals and a storage capacity and one lng terminal in south-east europe that will serve the whole region. here we rely on the results of existing regional cooperation. the projects put forward in the strategy have all been agreed beforehand under the three high-level groups i mentioned before. on climate and sustainability, i fully support the report’s conclusions. we need to look at both the opportunities and challenges in the lng value chain. on this point, let me stress that the commission will work closely with international partners to reduce methane slip in the overall lng chain. this is absolutely crucial to ensure that the positive aspects of using lng will not be compromised by the adverse effects of methane slip. as mentioned in the report, we should also highlight the potential of renewable sources of gas, also in the form of liquefied biogas. these sources can often utilise existing infrastructure, extending their useful lifetime further into the future. the strategy also recognises the great potential of lng in the transport sector, in particular in maritime and heavy road transport, where it can replace more polluting fuels. mr gyürk’s report also highlights the potential of small-scale lng for local industry in islands, where gas can replace oil as a fuel for power generation or feedstock. on storage, let me say that it needs to be able to compete on a level playing field. operators should be able to easily develop the more flexible products to match market needs. barriers to cross-border access should be eliminated and real cooperation on the efficient use for both business user and possibility of supply purposes should be stressed. in this regard you will be happy to hear that discussions on the gas tariff network codes have finished and the special role of lng in the european union market is well reflected in them. finally, let me turn to the international aspects rightly given prominence in the report. the study, which foresees the european union as the second largest lng importer in the world, will play a proactive role in the international efforts to promote a liquid and transparent global lng market. we will work with our international partners to promote gas trading rules that lead to more flexibility and the convergence of global gas markets. lng trade is already a subject in our energy dialogues with important consumers such as japan and current and future suppliers such as the gulf countries, the united states and canada, and this will be a step up in the future. honourable members, allow me to finish by once again by thanking the rapporteur and by stressing the importance the commission attaches to this strategy. it can have a significant impact across all five dimensions of the energy union, and i look forward to working with the european parliament to make that happen.
in writing. the european union's strategy on lng and gas storage is an important step towards improving energy security and stability. i would like to emphasise that one of the main challenges facing the european union in the framework of the common energy policy is to ensure that all citizens and economic operators have continuous and competitive access to energy, including natural gas. we have been struggling for years with the problem of gas price differentials across the eu markets. in central europe, gas prices are up to 23% higher and the market is too weakly interconnected. we cannot talk about energy security when many member states are dependent on one supplier, experiencing problems such as price discrimination or supply disruptions. the key issue to address these problems is the diversification of gas supply, including through the use of lng, as well as the development of transmission and storage infrastructure. i would like to stress that energy security depends not only on market competition but also on european union legislation and strategic agreements.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mrs isabelle thomas on behalf of the committee on fisheries entitled 'how to harmonise fisheries controls in europe?' (2015/2093 (ini)) (a8-0234/2016).
in writing. – this report was drafted in preparation of the forthcoming control regulation. in brief it could be said that controls are part of the regulatory conditions under which the exploitation of the fish resources may be conducted. therefore it is important to ensure effective controls of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets. in that context member states should ensure effective implementation of the control regulation. as we know the significant improvement in the control regime has been made thanks to the current legislation in force. that not only proves that european regulations make sense but also are crucial in combating degradation of our environment. there is one point i truly want to underline: controls should not be intended as a measure where fishers are treated as criminals. the prime function of controls should be to increase compliance to agreed management measures by increasing deterrence and voluntary compliance and thus decreasing violations. a balance between enforcement and voluntary compliance should be achieved for each fishery. participatory management involving fishers and other interested parties is a key tool required by all fisheries (artisanal, small-scale and commercial) in order to ensure an increase in compliance.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tomasz piotr poręb, drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport, on improving connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe (2015/2347 (ini)) (a8-0282/2016).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased, i am very pleased to be here today in the european parliament to present a report on the accessibility of central and eastern europe. i think we can all agree, as we sit here in this room, that while there is no doubt that in recent years there has been integration at the political level in the european union, this integration at the transport level still requires a great deal of effort and leaves much to be desired. this report addresses this issue and identifies the most strategic transport links - road, rail and air - that the european union and the member states on its eastern flank should build and invest in in the coming years. but one might ask, what should be the main idea of this eu project, what directions should be taken into account in particular? well, in my opinion, the eastern flank requires a major investment in north-south transportation. this is a strategic direction that we should be particularly focused on. what is the increase in communication availability? i think that each of you knows that studies, analyses and reports tell us that this is an increase in competitiveness, an inflow of foreign investment, an increase in security, which was also mentioned very often by the european commissioners in my talks. yes, a sense of security on the eastern flank of the european union, because a better-connected, well-organized network, a well-connected eastern europe is a safer europe. what are the main transport routes in which we will invest, we should invest in the coming years, i have taken the liberty of presenting in my report? without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, this is the rail baltica and via baltica route, connecting the baltic countries, through poland, to southwestern europe. certainly via carpatia a project that i and many of my colleagues have been working towards for the last few years. this is a key project for the people of the eastern flank of the european union, a project that has the chance to accelerate its development, a project that has the chance to give a sense of security to the people of eastern europe, including poland, including my region of podkarpacie. the people of rzeszów, niska, stalowa wola, barwinka, krosna are waiting for this road. without this road, the equalization of development opportunities will not be possible. we will not be able to join western europe without this road, without the via carpatia. but in my report i also point out important, important river links, the road links between the elbe, the oder and the danube, between the danube and the rhine, i point out important, important, necessary in the future to invest in the trade directions: the amber route, route 11, which has every opportunity to improve the development and enhance the development, the trade exchange between poland, hungary, slovakia or slovenia. these are, ladies and gentlemen, the points that are contained in this report, which, as i said, are of a strategic nature and have a very, very, very well thought-out format, largely agreed upon by the political groups and the european commission. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the counter-rapporteurs, the rapporteurs from the other political groups who have worked with me on this report. i'm very pleased with this cooperation. i think that we have achieved a great result together in the form of this report, which - i repeat - has the potential to be a strategic document for the future of the european union in terms of transport development in the eastern part of the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner violeta bulc, i would first of all like to congratulate the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and specifically the rapporteur, mr poręba, on taking the initiative to present this report, which highlights the importance of connectivity across the eu. the commission has continuously promoted the improvement of physical connections between the member states. they are crucial for fostering cohesion, for the proper functioning of the internal market and for generating economic growth and employment. this is the cornerstone of the ten-t policy framework renewed in 2013. the ten-t policy and its corridors take into consideration the specific needs of central and eastern european states to improve their connection with the rest of europe. i would just mention the north sea-baltic corridor that integrates the rail baltica project or the rhine—danube corridor that emphasises the development of the danube. we welcome the report, acknowledging the hard work of the european coordinators in developing their corridors and strongly supporting their efforts. the commission will continue to concentrate its efforts on the effective delivery of the priorities identified in the ten-t framework. the process of reviewing this policy framework will start in 2023 only, to allow the stability needed for the corridors to be completed. as experience shows, there is still an unequal development of transport infrastructure across the individual modes, with great priority still being given to roads when allocating national and local public funds. the commission will therefore continue to prioritise sustainable modes of transport in line with the objectives of our transport white paper and our commitment to combating climate change. we acknowledge the need to continue providing funding support for the development of rail or inland waterways infrastructure in central and eastern european member states. the european union will continue to support relevant investments through the european fund for strategic investments (esif) and the connecting europe facility (cef). the cef uptake in the cohesion member states has been exemplary after the second call. several national envelopes have already been entirely used. the third call, launched on 13 october, will be an occasion for the other cohesion member states to fully absorb their respective allocations. however, since the pipeline of projects is well beyond the possibilities offered by the cef budget, we welcome the report’s call to mobilise further the key players to find additional sources of funding for key projects. we need to keep mobilising central and eastern european countries to fully use the potential of the opportunities offered by the investment plan for europe. this is the new way forward for financing the infrastructure projects. we will thus continue to work closely with the eib on the appropriate geographical coverage of the efsi. finally, the commission acknowledges the high complexity of the regulatory, administrative and permitting procedures entailed by the implementation of the transport projects. this particularly impacts infrastructure projects with a cross-border dimension. the commission is therefore currently working on identifying solutions to streamline procedures and facilitate project implementation, thus generating more investment in the transport sector.
in writing. access to high-quality infrastructure and transport links is not only crucial for europe's economic development and for ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion, but also has a huge impact on the process of building the idea of a strong united european union and a well-functioning common market. thanks to eu funds, the countries of the new union have changed a lot transport infrastructure has been massively modernised and the flow of goods, people and services has increased dramatically. nevertheless, due to historical and geographical circumstances, there are still huge differences in economic development between the east and the west of europe. it is therefore essential that we take into account the eastern border region in our investment plans for a modern, competitive and resource-efficient european transport system, in particular in terms of providing access to modern rail and road infrastructure, which would accelerate development, increase the investment attractiveness of the area, reduce unemployment and enhance border security. i therefore ask the european commission to take greater account of central and eastern europe in its plans for future transport policy.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! i was not allowed to speak during the debate on women's rights, and as a longtime academic teacher and doctor, i would like to remind you in a one-minute speech that the child conceived is not part of the woman's body (as some women representatives of the peoples of europe, who should not be giving false information in the european parliament, say), when it has already been scientifically proven that at the moment of conception, the combination of the genetic material of a woman and a man creates a new organism, genetically different from the mother and the father, with a different dna code, and even a different hair colour, skin colour or blood group, and even a predisposition to certain diseases. the child as a separate human being is not some kind of cancer that needs to be removed as life threatening, but is the offspring of parents who have no right to decide to take the life of their child at any stage of its development.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am a great supporter of the rule of law and the liberal legal tradition, but i cannot support the report by the member for in 't veld. europe needs a genuine voluntary dialogue on this issue, a dialogue based on trust, on the exchange of experience, centred on the basics but also drawing on the good legal acquis of the individual countries of the european union. this report, on the other hand, provides us with an arbitration mechanism, a monitoring mechanism, which is permanent and at the risk of biasing the very concept of the rule of law. in the course of the report, i made proposals that were more in line with the idea of trust, mutual trust and dialogue between states. i wanted to have an annual pan-european conference with the european institutions and governments. i would also like to point out, in reply to my predecessor's call for a binding and effective mechanism, that such a mechanism is provided for in the treaty of lisbon. the council of the european union itself has the right to assess violations by individual states, and this is a legal and binding mechanism. we should avoid actions without a legal basis and which increase the lack of trust between countries and therefore i cannot support this report.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. today we already know that if, for example, the organisation of the judiciary, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, falls within the exclusive competence of the member state, it can be reorganised in such a way as to limit the independence of the judiciary, to eliminate in practice the separation of powers, to restrict the free media or the impartiality of the civil service. the proposed mechanism for assessing democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is therefore a call by parliament for the european institutions to be effective in addressing the most serious breaches in the member states. it is a call to fulfil the hopes of those europeans who, having lost the chance to protect their rights at home, expect more effective protection from the european institutions. and of course the project basically provides for an excess of dialogue dialogue between the european parliament and national parliaments, interinstitutional dialogue, dialogue of 28 experts. of course, there is some debate about whether it makes sense to use an annual evaluation mechanism, whether it should be done less often or more often, instead of a panel of 28 experts, or whether it should not take advantage of the experience and professionalism of the venice commission, for example. but these are the things that can certainly be supported in dialogue. we must remember that without democracy there would be no european union, and that is why the union must guarantee it effectively. this is the purpose of the proposed mechanism.
madam president! the author of the report rightly criticises the current practice of rule of law checks, writing that in some cases the uneven application of such instruments is seen by many as politically motivated, arbitrary and unfair to some countries. that's the way it is. in the european parliament too, arbitrary, unjust and politically motivated attacks have been made on some member states while others, such as the netherlands, have been spared with their inhuman plans for euthanasia. the integrated mechanism proposed by this report is incompatible with the european treaties and the principle of subsidiarity and would serve not so much to defend democracy as to replace it with a post-democratic left-wing and liberal meritocracy, best expressed in the proposed areopakt representative group of independent experts on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
madam president! europe is not just the opportunities of the single market, it is the common foundations. it's our duty to keep them stable. what separates democracy from dictatorship, or big politics from populist petty politics, is the independence of the judiciary, civil liberties and the impartiality of the media. the solutions in the report treat all countries equally, consolidate, not duplicate, existing tools, and are in the treaty mandate. they do not infringe the principle of subsidiarity, because the essence of civil liberties lies beyond national borders. democracy is not just the result of an election that gives the winner a temporary advantage. winning doesn't give you a mandate to undermine the foundation. this is why it is important to have a mechanism to measure and assess whether democracy and the rule of law are respected everywhere. the establishment of the pact for democracy and the interinstitutional agreement are essential in this respect, so that, while safeguarding the sovereignty of the member states, the principles that are the union's glue are not violated, so that, by assessing the situation in the countries by experts appointed by the national parliaments, threats and violations are identified, systemic weaknesses are identified and bad practices are prevented. this is not about punishment, this is about an early warning mechanism and dialogue. the council, the commission and the european parliament need effective and objective tools in this process. the work on the eu mechanism is just beginning. there are frameworks, procedures, deadlines, tools, areas. there must be political will.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this first opportunity, following the publication of the first of this series of monthly reports, to have this debate. if, as one or two people have said, this were to become a regular feature in plenary, as far as the commission is concerned that would be very welcome. a number of detailed points have been raised in discussion. i am obviously not going to be able to respond to all of those now, but we have taken very careful note and, through this iterative process of reporting and debating, i hope that we will be able to come back and address all of the points that have been raised. i will also have an opportunity myself to go into a little bit of detail on some of these points with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) early in november. as mrs fajon said, more than 80% of our citizens are looking for more reassurance from eu—level activity in support of our member states on the security agenda. as mr albrecht said, people want to feel more secure and there are a range of things that we can do at eu level to help and support member states. i am reassured that mrs hohlmeier thinks that we are starting to get some things done on terrorism, on cybercrime and on organised crime, as mrs ferrara underlined. we need to do what we have collectively agreed. i am in no doubt about that. as mrs in 't veld and mr deprez, among others, underlined, that is crucial not only because of the importance of the individual measures, but also to reassure people about the credibility of our work in this field. i am also absolutely convinced that we need to focus on what works and that involves a critical assessment of what we have been doing. mrs joly and others underlined that. i take that very seriously. i gave a commitment during my appearance in front of the libe committee that we would work on an evaluation of this policy area, and we will. i agree with mrs stevens, mrs gomes and others that we need to continue with an intelligent and sustained approach to prevention, as well as taking the fight to terrorism and serious criminality. in all of that i am completely committed to full respect for fundamental rights, because we have a clear objective. our objective, as many of you have said, is to defend our open societies and that is to act grounded in the rule of law. i will make two points in response to questions that have come up. on implementation and the particular case of the implementation of pnr underlined by mrs sippel and various others, we are not in infringement territory because the transposition date is spring 2018, but we do need to work together with all the member states to achieve the common shared objective of effective implementation by that date. to that end, i am going be producing an implementation roadmap in november, which will set out in concrete terms the steps that need to be taken and how we can work together to achieve them. my last particular point has regard to a number of comments made this morning about the relationship between migration and terrorism. i want to agree one hundred percent with the last speaker, mr lópez aguilar. we should not conflate the challenges associated with migration, on the one hand, with terrorism and the problems it poses on the other. to do so is to play into the hands of daesh.
president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by saying how pleased i am that several members have simply acknowledged that we have made progress in the legislative field. that is what mrs hohlmeier said, and i thank her for that. whether it is in the area of information exchange or interoperability, it has been mentioned several times that the commission gives us an update on a monthly basis on where we are. but that brings me to the point that i have also listened very carefully to the voices which have pointed out that the implementation is extremely important and therefore the slovak presidency wants to assure you that we will not allow ourselves any complacency in this area. that is why we are organizing an extraordinary, or additional, interior council on november 18th where we will have an exchange of views and try to generate momentum in the whole complexity of this area of security union. secondly, radicalisation is extremely important too; we want to put it on the agenda of the educational council. here in the area of education i think we need to make progress to face and fight radicalization. i know about the interests of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) in having an exchange on radicalisation. finally, we are making very good progress on the directive on combating terrorism, with a good prospect that we will close it towards the end of our presidency.
in writing. there are two vectors of eu security to look at: both internal and external. the most important problem in the internal dimension is the crisis of successive waves of refugees and terrorist attacks. both of these issues are strongly linked to the issues of foreign security around the eu's borders. these are, without a doubt, the issues that have been fatal in the arab spring and the decision of the french, british and italian governments to support the rebels. another factor of equal importance is the hybrid war that russia has waged against the west. i am not just thinking about ukraine, but also about cyber attacks and disinformation directed towards central and eastern european countries, including my homeland poland. so far, the eu institutions have failed to find a solution to any of these threats - and well, because such solutions are only created within the member states. security was, is and will be the inherent domain of sovereign states. contrary to the dreams of the communists, the euro-socialists and the fanatics of european federation, there is no common security policy.
in writing. the terrorist threat in the union is growing, as evidenced by the number of victims of terrorist attacks. we have therefore rightly increased the powers of europol and eurojust, since the fight against terrorism requires more effective international cooperation. however, the problem of checking the effectiveness of newly introduced solutions remains. for example, after long discussions, it was decided that eu countries and the united states would automatically exchange information on air passengers. but today, it turns out that 11 of the 28 eu member states are not able to quickly for technical and organisational reasons to pass on information about air passengers to the other countries. this should make us think seriously. before we decide to further expand the powers of the police and the services, let's first check how the existing competences are used. the key today is not to multiply the instruments to fight crime, including terrorism, but to implement and make the best use of existing solutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the automated data exchange for dna data in denmark because of its detailed and technical nature. the report aims to ensure security in europe, as automated exchanges are intended to help fight terrorism and cross-border crime. so important in this respect is the fact that denmark will share dna code data with the schengen countries, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision of 2016 on the launch of automated data exchange in denmark with regard to dna data. the decision is in line with previous council decisions on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. takes note also of its previous resolution of 10 october 2013 on enhancing law enforcement cooperation in the eu and of the european parliament's 2015 resolutions on the european agenda on security; cooperation on biometric data exchange is well integrated into smart border projects and implementation processes underway and strengthens the ability to control forgery of documents in a modern age facilitated by technological developments. effective checks on people travelling in the border-free euro area are also important from the perspective of the need to preserve the most important freedoms and values of the european union, which include the freedom to travel and work in ethnically and culturally diverse teams.
in writing. ‒ the effective fight against terrorism and crossborder crime requires increased cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the eu member states. the launch of automated data exchange in denmark for dna data will allow online access to the national database. in this way, it serves to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies and to detect crime more effectively across the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in denmark because of its specific and technical nature. the report's objective is of great importance in the context of ensuring security in europe, as the exchange it concerns is intended to improve the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. it is important that denmark shares fingerprint data with the schengen countries, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch in denmark of the automated data exchange for 2016 fingerprint data. cross-border cooperation in the exchange of data is a necessary element for ensuring security and combating terrorism and cross-border crime. in particular, in the context of the large influx of undocumented and unverified persons into europe, and the presence of tens of thousands of persons without right of residence, and thus without access to support systems and legal functioning in the market, exposing them to the influence of the criminal world, it is necessary to develop cooperation on data exchange. responsible and effective control is necessary to ensure that member states adopt adequate security policies and to safeguard one of europe's most important values, the free movement of persons and cultural diversity.
in writing. ‒ the effective fight against terrorism and crossborder crime requires increased cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the eu member states. the launch in denmark of the automated data exchange for fingerprint data will allow online access to the database of that country. in this way, it serves to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies and to detect crime more effectively across the european union. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the eu-people's republic of china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, because in my view the agreement is beneficial. it is very important that china is a partner in many aspects of the eu. visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic passports would undoubtedly help to maintain contacts between these countries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu and china launched a dialogue on migration and mobility in 2013. in this context, visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic passports is currently proposed. the council has already approved the agreement in january 2016. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the measure concerns the schengen area and does not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. in the case of france and the netherlands, the agreement applies only to european territories. both china and the eu can suspend the application of the agreement or terminate it only for all eu member states taken together. this means that situations such as the us and canada, which require visas only from some, but not all, eu member states, will not be possible. the agreement applies to all holders of diplomatic passports, including members of the european parliament holding diplomatic passports. i hereby endorse the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports is one of the fruits of the dialogue between the european union and china on migration and mobility that began in 2013. it is worth noting that under this agreement, china will not be able to suspend or terminate its visa-free regime only with selected eu member states. the council approved the agreement in january 2016. i believe that the european parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement, especially since it covers all holders of diplomatic passports.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to address the problem in member states that are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability. given the consequences of the financial and economic crisis facing the member states, the smooth implementation of the european structural and investment funds is of particular importance. i believe that the proposed solution, which does not alter the annual ceilings of the mff for commitments and payments, is the best response to the temporary liquidity problems in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis put pressure on national economies and member states have taken austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's main financial instrument, namely the european structural and investment funds. the proposed legislative changes may result in a temporary increase in payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments at the end of the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes. this should not entail changes to the annual ceilings of the multiannual financial framework for commitments and payments set out in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1311/2013. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has shaken the balance of the economies of the member states of the european union. despite austerity policies, many of them still face, at least temporarily, serious difficulties in financial stability and require support. we should mobilise the resources of the structural and investment funds to this end. the proposed amendments to the regulation will provide for a temporary increase in payment appropriations. at the same time, such a move should not entail any negative changes to the annual ceilings of the mff. the increase will be offset by lower payments at the end of the 2014-2020 programming period, so it will remain budget neutral. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen, because i wanted to express my disapproval of the behaviour of this mep. the commission of acts such as incitement to discrimination, hatred and violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their origin or ethnicity is simply unworthy and unacceptable. jean-marie le pen is accused of public incitement to racial hatred, and a video posted online on june 6, 2014 was presented as evidence in the case. although the situation described is not strictly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, i believe that such behaviour should be condemned and therefore voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - in view of the suspicion of a criminal offence, i have decided to comply with the request of the investigating magistrates of the grand tribunal in paris. parliamentary immunity is an additional safeguard for freedom of expression, so that judicial proceedings do not block the courageous work of active members of parliament. but the exercise of that freedom is subject to certain limits, which are determined by respect for the rights and freedoms of others.
in writing. ‒ i supported the application for privileges and immunities by jane collins, who was accused of defaming three labour party members (sarah champion, john healey and kevin barron). ms. collins' statement was about the fact that, according to her, they knew about the sexual abuse of a minor, but they didn't take any action because of political correctness, their cowardice and selfishness. the situation described took place in 2014, therefore the defamation is not linked to the performance of the duties of ms collins as an mep. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mep jane collins has been accused of defamation and libel in a speech she gave at a party congress. jane collins considered that the civil proceedings against her prevented her from attending parliamentary sittings. the mep considered that this was in breach of article 7 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the eu and therefore applied for the privileges set out in the protocol. it should be noted, however, that article 7 does not apply to restrictions resulting from judicial proceedings and therefore the member's request on that basis was inadmissible. there are also no grounds for applying articles 8 and 9 of the protocol in the jane collins case. the protection conferred by article 8 shall be limited to opinions expressed in the performance of the member's duties. jane collins' statement was not related to her work in the european parliament, but was made in a national political debate. the mps were also not entitled to protection under article 9. it provides that, during the ep session, its members enjoy the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament in their own country, whereas members of the united kingdom parliament do not enjoy immunity from criminal or civil proceedings. consequently, there is no legal basis for jane collins to claim immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for the exercise of the privileges and immunities of the member of parliament by mr mario borghezzi, in connection with the criminal proceedings against him in italy. the case concerns a statement by mario borghezio, in which he expressed racist and hateful attitudes, and thus insulted mr kashetu (born in congo), who was appointed minister of integration in italy. as this resignation took place in 2013, it is not related to the performance of the duties of maria borghezio as an mep. i therefore voted in favour of the request for the member to enjoy the privileges and immunities of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the provisions governing the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament are intended, inter alia, to ensure that they are not subject to investigation, prosecution or detention for opinions or positions expressed in the course of their duties. it is clear that freedom of expression is protected, but only if there is a link between the conduct in question and parliamentary activity. in italy, a court found that mario borghezio, a member of the european parliament, had expressed views that allegedly reflected racial and ethnic hatred on a radio broadcast. under italian law, this constitutes a criminal offence and a ground for criminal proceedings. the termination was also contrary to the prohibition of discrimination laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights. it cannot therefore be assumed that mr borghezio's views were expressed in the course of the performance of his duties as a member of parliament. i therefore consider that he should not be granted immunity in the criminal proceedings against him.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal on the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents in rail transport. in this respect, a balance needs to be struck between ensuring greater safety for passengers and the railway itself and imposing an excessive burden on member states that are required to collect data. i feel that the content of the conclusion suggests that there is a high risk of overburdening the state and i am against bureaucracy. those arguments were overwhelming in my decision to vote against.
in writing. ‒ more statistical data can contribute to better transport policy planning and to improving rail safety. on the other hand, a balance should be struck between those benefits and the possible burden on member states and respondents that would result from the collection of additional data. the compromise reached is that no new categories of data will be collected. this will facilitate access to existing data, for example on the accessibility of stations for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation on rail transport statistics in the european union. in the current financial perspective, we are right to emphasise railway investment. they should reduce road traffic and protect the environment by improving the fluidity of rail transport. this growing scale of investment, which amounts to tens of billions of euros in the european union, also requires control of how the money is spent, which is not possible without reliable statistics. however, it appears that the information collected cannot relate exclusively to the number of passengers and goods carried. equally important would be data on infrastructure, in particular on the rail traffic management system. improvement in this area is essential for the operational performance of the rail transport system in europe. another problem is cross-border investment to improve rail traffic between countries. it therefore appears necessary to separate a specific part of the statistics for cross-border railway infrastructure investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the compilation of statistics on inland waterway freight transport. the purpose of the proposal is to align the provisions on comitology in regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 with the delegated and implementing acts. in my view, it is important to try to align the rules with the delegated and implementing acts. i welcome the fact that, as agreed between the european union bodies, the conduct of pilot studies (to assess the feasibility and cost of such a study) will be voluntary. i am convinced that this is a good thing for the eu transport economy and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the directive on the eu legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions because it contains elements that are contrary to the principles of better law-making. in the context of the imposition of non-criminal sanctions, the directive aims at approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states. in my view, the text of the directive does not fulfil its intended purpose and i also believe that the implementation of the new rules could result in practical problems and a lack of flexibility in contacts between member states and trading partners. for the reasons i have just given, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amending budget pbk 3/2016 on the security of the eu institutions in the context of the recent terrorist attacks in europe. in my view, safety is the most important issue and i therefore believe that the eur 15.8 million for strengthening institutions, equipment and training to improve safety is appropriate. i voted in favour because security is really priceless, especially now that there is a need to strengthen the security measures of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 3 for 2016 concerns the security of the eu institutions in the light of the recent terrorist attacks in europe. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. of this amount, eur 3,5 million will be allocated to the european schools, eur 5 million to the european commission and eur 0,2 million to the european parliament. the strengthening of parliament is achieved by the employment of 35 additional security staff to provide armed protection for strategic points in parliament's buildings. although the amount of eur 15,8 million for payments can be transferred from another budget line, the related commitment appropriations have to be covered by a margin in the administrative section of the eu budget due to the higher than expected depreciation of salaries and pensions last year. in view of the need to strengthen the security measures of the eu institutions, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increasing number of terrorist attacks in europe, including in brussels, security measures at the premises of the eu institutions should also be strengthened. the additional staff, equipment and training will ensure better protection of key sites. the draft amending budget itself is a purely technical procedure. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report which i feel lays out the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal in an inaccurate and unclear way. i believe that in matters of such importance, one cannot afford to compromise. the eu in exchange for the lifting of the draconian sanctions against iran received a promise from iran to curb its nuclear threat activities. the rapporteur is not optimistic about the eu's role in the nuclear deal and its relations with the country. and given the situation in the middle east, the human rights abuses and the regional conflicts, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ relations between the eu, its member states and the international community and iran are slowly softening following the successful agreement on iran's nuclear ambitions in july 2015. negotiations between iran and the p5+1 started in 2006, but have intensified recently, resulting in an agreement recently. the p5+1 wanted to limit iran's nuclear threat. under the vienna agreement, iran's nuclear program was removed from the list of dangerous activities. however, it remains unclear how these findings will affect broader regional issues in the middle east, including the iran-saudi arabia proxy war, the shia-sunni sectarian conflict, the conflict in syria, and relations with israel. the afet report commends the eu, in particular for its role in the nuclear settlement, and the rapporteur's assessment of relations with iran as a regional actor is positive. the eu has made rapid progress towards normalising relations with iran despite general reservations about the human rights situation in the country and its role in the regional conflict. however, a more precise reflection of the eu-iran relationship should be ensured. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the july 2015 nuclear deal with iran and the country's internal political situation have created a unique opportunity for reform and improved relations with the european union. on the one hand, european businesses will be able to invest in iran after 10 years of a complete freeze on trade, and on the other hand, we have succeeded in eliminating a country that may have nuclear weapons. moreover, iran has some of the world's largest oil and gas reserves and deepening energy cooperation between the union and the republic of iran could play an important role in diversifying the eu's energy supply sources and reducing the energy dependence of member states on a single supplier russia. the european parliament's report rightly stressed the need to monitor the situation in iran on a continuous basis, in particular with regard to respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i believe that there are values more important than economic growth and increased investment - and those are undoubtedly peace and security.
in writing. ‒ following strong pressure from the international community, the iranian authorities have agreed to negotiations aimed at limiting the country's nuclear programme. the member states of the european union have made a significant contribution to the adoption of these arrangements and to the normalisation of relations with iran. despite these achievements, we should continue to monitor the nuclear threat posed by iran and strive to ensure that the eu's relations with iran are balanced, transparent and based on facts. as a forum for international exchange and debate, the european parliament should not shy away from raising legitimate concerns, especially in the face of human rights violations and the escalation of conflicts in the middle east. recommendations are also needed for further progress in relations between the european union and that country. the report does not meet these expectations. that's why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is good that the nuclear deal with iran has been equipped with mechanisms to verify that it is fulfilling its commitments. however, despite the eu's diplomatic efforts, the agreement itself does not cover human rights issues. it is therefore very good that they have been raised in the strategy adopted. it makes clear that the union will engage in a dialogue with iran on the protection of human rights, which will facilitate the opening of an eu delegation in tehran. in this dialogue, the eu will do its utmost to ensure that iran abolishes the death penalty. even abolishing it for drug-related offences alone would reduce the number of executions by as much as 80%. it is therefore important to use the dialogue platforms that have been created by the strategy to persuade iran to abandon its current practices. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the eu's post-nuclear iran strategy, because i see it as an opportunity not only for iran, which will certainly benefit from opening up to the world, but also for the eu itself, which is deeply committed to the idea of promoting human rights in the world.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up to the crim resolution, as in my view these actions are not in line with the principle of subsidiarity. i have always been against the idea of a european public prosecutor's office and against eu membership of the group of states against corruption. the group i belong to proposed a number of amendments on this point, but they were rejected, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the commission set up in march 2013 was tasked with analysing organised crime in europe, assessing the implementation of eu policy on organised crime and examining the role of the eu's home affairs agency. the work resulted in a report which was adopted by the european parliament on 23 october 2013. the new own-initiative report, which follows on from the previous working document, underlines the substance and recommendations set out in the resolution of 23 october 2013, focusing on specific priority actions. the report has several positive aspects, such as increased information exchange and cooperation between law enforcement agencies, better protection for whistle-blowers, greater transparency and traceability of eu funds, links between organised crime and terrorism, or a call for specific measures to combat trafficking in human beings. however, the report calls for specific actions at eu level that are not compatible with the subsidiarity principle, namely the rapid establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, the recommendation that the eu become a member of the group of states against corruption (greco) established by the council of europe, or the call for eu action on the redistribution of criminal assets for their reuse for social purposes. i could not support the report.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. the report underlines the need for better information exchange and law enforcement cooperation, more transparency in eu measures, a closer look at the links between organised crime and terrorism and an effective fight against trafficking in human beings. the issues raised are undoubtedly relevant. however, the report also calls for very specific action at eu level. among them, the call to speed up the work on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and the recommendation that the european union become a member of the group of states against corruption (greco) established by the council of europe are to be mentioned above all. the exercise of eu competence in this area also requires respect for the principle of subsidiarity and the powers of the member states.
mr president, i did not support this report, and that is why i am here to explain that my opposition to this report does not mean that i do not want to help refugees and do not respect the protection of human rights. but the specifics of the report led me to believe that it cannot be supported, because the report is full of various unrealizable utopian ideas. one is solidarity and assistance to refugees, and the other is the specific text of this proposal, which contains things like paragraph 32, where it is recommended that migrants be included in all social and political decision-making processes. but i don't think that, ladies and gentlemen, has anything to do with solidarity. one thing is to help those who lose their homes, and the other thing is to give the opportunity to participate in decision-making in those countries to citizens who pay taxes and are citizens of that country. i also don't agree with things like illegal immigrants being able to form unions. and that's a whole bunch of reasons why i can't support this report.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report because there is a great deal of hypocrisy in expressing concern about discriminatory practices which too often affect certain social and cultural minorities, and we do not promote this here, for example, where people like mr jean-marie le pen are constantly being dragged into court for speaking in accordance with their convictions. i think that if you have very strong anti-russian statements, and all nations should be treated equally, then anti-semitic statements must be treated equally as anti-russian statements. all nations should be treated equally and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on human rights and migration in third countries because i believe that it does not solve the problematic issues, but rather complicates the matter. i think this is a very important subject that needs to be examined in depth. it cannot be treated irresponsibly, as i believe the report does, with regard to the issue of safe and legal access for migrants, permanent and compulsory relocation programmes and family reunification. if you don't have a concrete idea of how to solve the problem, you shouldn't even try to discuss it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report by the gue rapporteur marie-christine vergiat contains a number of problematic points. almost a complete confusion between the terms 'migrant' and 'refugee'. in a number of places, the rights normally granted to refugees have been extended to a wider category of migrants, without distinguishing between legal and illegal migrants. the report is controversial in its discussion of issues such as return and readmission, and integration and labour market policies, which are outside the committee's remit. the report calls for 'safe and legal' ways for migrants to access. it also calls for the creation of permanent and compulsory relocation programmes. it calls for full rights, including housing and education, for irregular migrants and for recognition of their qualifications, and for family reunification, including for economic reasons, and including those with lower qualifications. there are also some positive elements, such as the right wording to pay special attention to the rights of women, children and other most vulnerable groups, or to funding for unhcr, fao and other organisations helping to shelter refugees close to their countries of origin. however, they do not offset the fact that in other areas the 'unbridgeable threshold' has been crossed. it is very important to maintain the distinction between the term 'migrant' and the term 'refugee'. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon with significant economic, political and social consequences. the most recent and largest migration crisis since the second world war has had a significant impact on the functioning of both the european union and its individual countries. it is therefore essential that parliament should take a clear and firm position in the face of such important challenges. unfortunately, the report presented contains many unclear statements, unrealistic objectives and is almost entirely devoid of plans and priorities to counter the current situation in europe and its immediate neighbourhood. while the report rightly draws attention to the obligations of the member states in the field of immigrant rights and the problem of violence against women and children migrating to the european union, it also includes provisions on the obligation to recognise qualifications acquired by migrants in their countries of origin or to provide them with work, which seems impossible to achieve. i have therefore decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the scale of the migration crisis means that we cannot lose sight of the issue of respect for human rights in the case of refugees. i agree that among these, special attention should be paid to women and children. the organizations that help these people also need financial support. in addition to these pertinent remarks, the report contains a number of points which raise my doubts. first, it erases the border between refugees and migrants. secondly, it does not focus on the core issues but also covers issues such as integration policy and labour market policy. an example is the call for full rights, including housing and education, also for illegal migrants. the report also calls for the creation of permanent and mandatory relocation programmes. these demands are too far-reaching and vague, which is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. i certainly agree that respect for human rights should be a core value for all member states. the report aims to encourage member states to ensure that rights such as human rights, labour and environmental standards and the fight against corporate corruption are respected. however, i feel that the report has raised issues which go beyond the scope of the report. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the i. corrao report cites the un guidelines on business and human rights and the revised oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, which require corporations operating in third countries to voluntarily adhere to values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. the report recognised human rights as core values of the eu and its member states. the main objective of the report is to encourage member states to apply these rights to companies whose owners are located in member states, which are established in member states or which are substantially active in member states. the need to address legal problems and uncertainties as to where responsibility for human rights violations lies is reiterated. it is also recalled that companies should assume legal liability. the eu, member states, third countries and all national and international bodies are called upon to adopt as a matter of urgency and to the widest extent possible binding instruments for the effective protection of human rights in this area and to give priority to the immediate establishment of a human rights due diligence obligation for state-owned or state-controlled enterprises. unfortunately, most of these statements are ambiguous. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ companies are among the most important players in the globalisation of the economy, financial services and international trade, and we should therefore be looking more carefully at their activities both at home and in the european union, but also outside the community. the european parliament report highlights the growing role of corporations in ensuring respect for human rights in third countries, while noting that trade agreements can contribute to strengthening global human rights and principles. the document also focuses on corporate social responsibility and the increasing number of voluntary commitments undertaken by companies in this area. the ep also calls on the eu and its member states to establish clear rules stating that companies established in their territory or under their jurisdiction must respect human rights in all their activities, in every country and in every context of their activities, including outside the eu. i have decided to vote in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries.
in writing. ‒ according to the un guidelines on business and human rights and the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, corporations operating in third countries should voluntarily adhere to human rights values and labour standards. the report aims to encourage eu member states to enforce these rights and standards for companies whose owners are located in member states, which are established in member states or which do a significant part of their business in member states. however, the report contains a number of general and ambiguous demands, including a call on the eu, member states, third countries and all national and international bodies to adopt binding instruments to ensure effective protection of human rights in this area 'as a matter of urgency' and 'as far as possible'. the title of the report itself seems problematic. in view of these doubts, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage, i decided to vote against. in my view, the strategy should focus on lng and gas storage issues, which are helpful in creating a strong energy union, and in practice it links to binding energy and climate targets for 2030. which i believe is designed to undermine the future role of lng and gas storage, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ there is a lot of talk about non-renewable energy and its dwindling resources. it is estimated that the most popular deposits, such as oil and coal, will run out around 2040. this is increasing the consumption of natural gas, which today accounts for only 20% of the world's total energy demand and whose reserves are still not fully exploited. it is usually found in association with other minerals, but it can also occur on its own. the largest natural gas reserves are in russia and the persian gulf. at the same time, the european union wants to reduce its emissions of greenhouse gases, which cause global warming, and to ensure that it has constant access to energy, thereby reducing its dependence on imports. the indirect solution is the use of liquefied natural gas (lng), which will significantly reduce transport costs as well as storage costs. this is important because the current pipeline system in europe is not fully harmonised and therefore the full potential of this mine cannot be exploited. and also, the liquid form is much more environmentally friendly. this requires the full integration of the energy policies of the individual member states of the union and the provision of stable gas supplies.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is based on the commission communication entitled 'an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage'. it should be seen as a guide with a set of key instruments on how to unlock lng and gas storage potential in order to achieve the goal of a strong energy union and complete the internal energy market. the negotiations have managed to maintain a balanced compromise, which focuses on lng and gas storage issues. s&d, alde and the greens have tried to broaden the scope of this report by adding themes on energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and shale gas. the aim was to extend the scope of this report to question the future role of lng and gas storage. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the european commission published a communication on an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage as part of the sustainable energy security package. the commission considers that improving the access of eu member states to imported lng, as well as more efficient cross-border gas storage, will help to increase security of supply and reduce dependence on gas from a single supplier, and will allow member states to benefit from low global lng prices. the ep report on the eu's strategy for liquefied natural gas rightly stressed the need to create an internal market or to work more closely with international partners to create a truly global lng market. parliament was more cautious than the commission in its proposal about the need for new infrastructure. the risk of stranded assets, excess storage capacity and additional import capacity was noted. the report expressed particular concern about the eu's dependence on russian gas and criticised the proposed nord stream ii project. reducing europe's dependence on energy imports, especially from one direction, the east, should be a key element in building the european union's energy security. in this context, it is difficult to consider nord stream ii as an investment in line with the interests of the community, the foundations of the energy union and the european energy security strategy.
in writing. ‒ the operation of lng terminals is an important building block of the internal energy market in the european union, providing another source of natural gas supply. this will increase the energy security of the member states and their citizens. the potential of lng is already demonstrated by the terminals already in operation in klaipeda and świnoujście, among others. a coherent eu strategy for lng and storage is therefore needed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. that is why i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the strategy discussed in the plenary session is a very important step towards the creation of a well-functioning energy union, a project which poland was one of the initiators of. i am very pleased that it clearly highlights the risk of a potential doubling of the nord stream pipeline capacity, as this will only increase the eu's dependence on a single gas supplier russia. with this in mind, liquefied natural gas (lng) represents an opportunity to diversify gas supplies and thus increase the eu's energy security. the new eu strategy aims to facilitate the construction of not only lng terminals but also of the supporting pipeline infrastructure between member states, which is one of the key tools for implementing the principle of energy solidarity in times of gas shortages. the commission has identified 195 such projects as being of common interest which could be supported financially by the european fund for strategic investments. this is particularly relevant for member states in the central, eastern and southern european regions, which unlike the western eu countries do not have an extensive lng infrastructure and are therefore mostly dependent on a single supplier and vulnerable to disruptions in gas supply. i therefore voted today in favour of the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on how to harmonise fisheries controls in europe, because the solution proposed on this issue is consistent with respect for national competences. there is a need to standardise this issue, as fishermen point out, with regard to unequal treatment in the area of systematicity, frequency, severity, duration, accuracy, effectiveness and methods of fisheries control in europe. the objective of this report is ambitious. on the one hand, it is to identify shortcomings in the application of the rules that lead to a sense of inequality and to propose solutions to increase controls under the common fisheries policy. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there is a uniform law for fishermen in the european union. however, they complain that the rules are not respected in the same way in every country and that fisheries controls are sometimes more rigorous and sometimes less rigorous. there are concerns that established procedures are not always followed, which may lead to inaccuracies. appropriate measures should therefore be taken to improve the common fisheries policy. the main reason for the controversy is that the number of checks at each stage varies from one country to another: in some regions, they occur at every level, while in others, checks on the sea-to-plate route occur only once. the solution proposed in this case is to simplify the common law so that it is simple and understandable to everyone, so that there are no discrepancies. comprehensive training should be provided throughout the community for both fishermen and inspectors. the creation of databases will allow the current status of fisheries to be monitored and knowledge to be acquired. action should also be taken to harmonise procedures across europe and to strengthen the role of the european fisheries control agency (efca). in particular, in all fishing areas where the catches of species are below the maximum sustainable yield (msy). however, the penalties for non-compliance should be the same for all.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the issue of harmonising fisheries controls while respecting national competences. the report has two objectives: to identify the shortcomings in the application of the rules that lead to this feeling of inequality and to propose solutions to increase the degree of harmonisation of controls under the common fisheries policy. the question of the practical applicability of certain provisions of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 has been raised on several occasions, either because of the limited possibility of adapting the provisions to the reality or because of the contradictions in the provisions. this report contains a number of conclusions on the factors hindering the achievement of consistency. the proposals in the final report include: a call for simplification and improvement of eu legislation, as well as a reduction of administrative burden through the 2017 review of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on fisheries controls; a call for the european fisheries control agency to allocate more resources to ensure the application of common standards in the field of control, inspection and surveillance and to facilitate operational cooperation between member states through joint deployment plans. for these reasons, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the burdens and controls faced by fishermen in europe vary widely from one member state to another. differences in the frequency, duration and methods of controls lead to a sense of unequal treatment in this sector. the practice to date in the framework of the application of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 indicates that some provisions are not sufficiently implemented. this concerns, among other things, control procedures, the system of sanctions, the method of data collection. the report identified existing shortcomings and rightly proposed greater harmonisation of controls under the common fisheries policy. the simplification of legislation through common standards of control, inspection and surveillance, the reduction of the burden on fishermen, the intention to strengthen operational cooperation between member states and the review of the application of the regulation planned for 2017 are steps in the right direction. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on improving connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because it is innovative and comprehensive and is fully dedicated to the development of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe (cee). it is important that it contains specific guidelines and recommendations on the direction of infrastructure development, areas of support and the need to implement specific projects in the cee region (construction of rail baltica, via carpathia, development of the eastern part of eusalp, creation of a new european corridor). for the reasons i have just mentioned, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ transport is a kind of bloodstream of the economy. without a well-functioning system for moving people and goods and without the possibility of relocating services, there is no clear economic growth. transport, by its very nature, also brings markets closer together, providing businesses with the opportunity to exchange goods, services and experiences with the outside world. unfortunately, despite the investments made with european structural funds, transport infrastructure in most central and eastern european countries is still much less developed than in other parts of the european union. priorities should include investments in particular to fill in missing links, to remove bottlenecks and to ensure smooth connections in long-distance and regional passenger and freight transport. in order to facilitate the implementation of transport projects, the european commission and the individual member states should seek to streamline and simplify tendering procedures, to issue guidelines on the public-private partnership formula and to simplify authorisation procedures. only then will the available funds be used effectively.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's work to date has lacked a document that would comprehensively cover the development of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. i therefore welcome the report on this subject. the document under review not only discusses the development directions and areas of support, but also indicates specific projects that need to be implemented. the necessary investments concern rail, road and water links which will increase transport and communication opportunities throughout the region of central and eastern europe. in this way, the strengthening and development of trans-european networks will enable union citizens, economic operators and local and regional communities to derive full benefit from the establishment of an area without internal borders, as referred to in article 170 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report because of the bill of rights. unlike most of you here, i come from a communist country, i'm 74 years old, i lived most of my life in a communist country where i was forced to read karl marx. and because i read karl marx, i want to assure you that karl marx would say that the bill of rights goes too far in building communism. and because i don't like communism, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the creation of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, because i believe that this is incompatible with the principle of conferral of powers and the principle of subsidiarity. the purpose of such a mechanism would be to monitor the application of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states and the institutions. it has been confirmed by experts that such actions go beyond the powers of parliament as conferred on it by the treaties. i will never support actions that are incompatible with the very basis of the eu's existence, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the institutions of the european union have no treaty rights to assess the sovereignty of the member states. parliament has no such rights and they cannot be introduced without treaty amendments. you're misreading the record, as was clearly shown in the debates about my country, poland. with brexit, there is a greater panic among the federalists in the eu, who fear the loss of their political power and total electoral defeat, and are therefore eager to look for defensive tools. they want to stop the wave that is sweeping europe today and that heralds the end of the reign of political correctness and the corrupt financial and government caste. that's where flowers like the in 't veld report come from. it proposes, among other things, sanctions as an effective deterrent, and the eu institutions become the guardian, the policeman, the prosecutor and the judge who are to fight for the respect of eu law. the script and the language are like something out of a 1984 orwell book. the 2014 elections clearly showed that the citizens of the eu member states are fed up with european integration and do not want the project of a deeper eu. the project to be carried out by the report to be voted on.
in writing. ‒ article 7 of the treaty on european union is inappropriate, since the preventive and sanction mechanisms referred to therein have never been activated, parliament, together with a team of experts composed of representatives of ngos, lawyers and others, would favour the prosecution of member states guilty of violating common european values. the proposal is accompanied by a detailed annex explaining what mechanism the ep believes should be proposed in the commission proposal, including amendments to the treaties mainly to remove the subsidiarity principle. the rapporteur claims that billions of euros in savings will be achieved, but at the same time the proposal clearly infringes the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of conferral of competence. the head of the legal department of the european parliament stated that the ep should not propose such a mechanism as it goes beyond the powers conferred by the treaties. however, the rapporteur is continuing the procedure, pending confirmation or denial of this fact by the commission's lawyers. i therefore could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the rule of law is at the heart of european liberal democracy and is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, stemming from the common tradition of constitutionalism in all member states. any country that wishes to join the community must meet the highest standards in this area. unfortunately, the european union does not have the tools today to ensure that the same standards are applied by countries that are already members of the community. this is a situation that is difficult to accept and completely incomprehensible to europeans. the proposal in the european parliament's report for the eu institutions to conclude a european pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is a very important contribution to the current debate on the need to develop new instruments, given that the existing mechanisms are limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective. the adoption of a framework enabling the eu to address not only breaches of specific eu legislation but also the risk of serious threats to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights would respond to the current gaps in the protection of the values and principles on which the community is founded.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. i'm a believer in the rule of law and the liberal legal tradition. the european union needs a genuine dialogue, including on democracy. however, it should be based on the exchange of experience between the union and the member states and on building mutual trust. a voluntary joint conference of the eu institutions and the governments of the member states would serve this purpose well. the report presents us with a different mechanism, arbitrary and supervisory, which not only arises from a lack of confidence in the member states, but also has no basis in the treaty. second, it risks biasing the interpretation of the concept of the rule of law by entrusting the assessment to a committee of experts without a democratic mandate. third, there is already a binding mechanism in primary law which allows the member states to be assessed on their respect for the fundamental values on which the union is founded. under article 7 of the treaty on european union, the council has competence in this area. a mechanism which is supposed to be a rule of law check and which has no treaty basis or proper legitimacy and creates a parallel procedure alongside the existing article 7 teu does not deserve approval.
mr. chairman, my predecessor spoke of the issue of identity. but the european parliament has a different legitimacy than the european commission, because the european parliament is elected, the commission does not go through this procedure and i think that it should listen to the voice of the citizens even more and its representatives should speak with a little more modesty. i have a feeling of déjà vu, because i hear from the next president of the european commission, another declaration about fighting bureaucracy or euro-bureaucracy. the european commission is part of that bureaucracy, or better yet, the european commission. still, it's a bit of a shadow fight. we are waiting for concrete action, not slogans and slogans. today, for citizens who are increasingly critical of the european union (unfortunately, that is the way it is), these slogans are not enough. finally, the vacuum cleaner is not something that can really capture the citizens of the european union. as regards transparency, i would ask the commission to ask the council, when it meets with the council representatives next, why the council is not answering our questions, the questions of the members of the european parliament, on the council's budget. it's been going on for seven years. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i thank mr sanyk for this question, with whom i often disagree, but i always listen carefully to what he says, because he is worth listening to. i think that this is where we should support president juncker, but what does this mean in practice? there is a challenge especially for young people in europe, including in my country, whose first job is to go to the unemployment office. but the question is, can the european commission really solve this problem? and finally, i remember another of mr juncker's words, when he joked that when problems start, you have to lie. i think the opposite: problems start, you have to tell the truth.
mr. chairman, please! this year has been and is a year of global challenges, including development policy, and we must expect the same in 2017. the migration and refugee crisis is a complex phenomenon of increasing scale also for the union. problems arise from the poor humanitarian situation in refugee camps and from the policy of readmission and reintegration of migrants and refugees in their countries of origin. therefore, action at source should be taken to make development cooperation more effective and coordinated and complementary to the other union instruments for external action. september 2016 marks the first anniversary of the adoption of the 2030 agenda, in which the eu has played an important role through public consultation, negotiations and numerous studies. it is important that the union further strengthen its efforts to implement and monitor this global commitment to eradicate poverty and ensure sustainable development. 2017 also brings us closer to reviewing and concluding a new partnership with the acp countries beyond 2020. it is important to underline during the negotiations the crucial importance of political dialogue, which has been underused and ineffective so far, and to focus on improving the situation of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law in partner countries through the involvement and capacity building of civil society. for the challenges of today and tomorrow, political borders are irrelevant, they are transnational and transnational. the union should therefore, however, carefully build on the community method, while continuing to cooperate with external partners.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the mff regulation provides for the first time for a post-election review of the entire financial perspective. that obligation is set for 2016, and that's why we're having this debate today. the regulation provides that if the review reveals the need for changes, i.e. where necessary, the change, i.e. the revision of the multiannual financial perspective, should be made. the european parliament, without waiting for its treaty commitments, had already decided to undertake a review in order to structure its proposal for the financial perspective. i emphasize this because it is not just a matter of the european parliament's ambition that it wants to carry out an audit, but the european parliament, through its committee on budgets, has carried out a partial audit, with the help of the european commission. as a result of our debates, public hearings, but also information from the european commission, the budget committee of the european parliament came to the conclusion that a revision was absolutely necessary, and that is how we structured our proposal, which we presented as an own-initiative report. in our proposal we clearly indicate that there is a need to review the implementation of specific changes. we were very pleased to hear that the commission had indeed agreed with our opinion and, in presenting its proposal, had also proposed a revision. although we would expect even bigger or more substantial proposals on some issues, we believe that this is a very good starting point for negotiations. we therefore expect that the european commission will also try to convince the council that what it has proposed and what the commissioner has spoken about, namely the changes that are contained both in the draft budget for 2017 and in the so-called omnibus, or set of legislative changes, as well as in the proposal itself to amend the financial perspective, that this whole complex of changes will take place in the coming months. we see that these changes are being proposed in different places, we are willing to work in different areas also linking these issues together. we are therefore ready to enter into immediate discussions with the council on the council's position, which will be presented to parliament. we are ready for these talks, we are prepared, we are full of good will, as regards the need to regulate the necessary changes to make the budget function properly. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
mr. chairman, please! i didn't hear the question.
blue-card answer. – with all respect, of course i did understand you; i just didnʼt find the question in your statement. you presented a statement concerning the situation. if you want my advice and my opinion about strasbourg and brussels, i think this is the treaty agreement made between very serious states and governments many years ago, and i don't know if all the member states wants to re-open the debate about the different institutions being in different countries. maybe one day, but i donʼt think this is really the issue. so sorry i didnʼt answer your question, but i thought that you would want to just to make the statement.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, i want to make it clear that the commission's failure to propose an increase in the ceilings in the current mff is likely to cause difficulties in financing eu action, mainly in titles 3 and 4, in view of the ongoing immigration crisis. secondly, the commission's proposals for the rebuilding of the funds for horizon 2020, connecting europe, erasmus+, cosme and the youth employment initiative, totalling eur 2.2 billion, or additional funds for the extension of the efsi, as well as the external investment plans under the migration partnership, totalling eur 1.6 billion, should be welcomed. finally, thirdly, the action to reduce the level of payments in 2016 by up to eur 7,3 billion in the commission's amending budget no 4 for 2016 should be disapproved, as in my view this will lead to the accumulation of arrears in unpaid accounts.
i'm not going to tell you what i think. the european parliament knows, and the commission knows, that this revision of the budget is both an opportunity and a problem. the reason is that the revision is indeed necessary, not only to finance new needs, which are well recognised and which generally arise from new promises made by the council without indicating the source of the money, but also to avoid the budgetary drama which we remember from the end of the previous financial perspective. but it's also a problem because the commission, forced to make a proposal in mid-2016, has little idea of what the implementation will look like in the years ahead. all we know is that this time we're more behind than ever. one billion euros of so-called interim payments last year, very modest assumptions for next year, that's more delay in implementation than ever, and so there's a problem with that. i would therefore like to make it clear and to confine myself to this: the revision is not just about finding money for newly identified needs, because the commission has been very creative in this. it is also about preventing these tragedies, and i say this as a participant and witness of this budgetary drama of 2013/14 and then 2015. this is an equally important task, but i do not know exactly how the commission will deal with it, because it is not only a question of investment but also of the credibility of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i believe that the mid-term review of the mff presented by the european commission is a good starting point for further work. the difficult period of crisis facing the european union has clearly demonstrated the need for budgetary flexibility to respond quickly and counter adverse developments. i therefore consider it important, among other things, to double the flexibility instrument and the reserve for emergency aid. i am also pleased to announce further simplification of rules or the release of additional funds of over six billion euro, for, amongst others, boosting growth and jobs and migration and security. i would also like to point out that the review of the mff does not allow for any breach of national envelopes and the agreed amounts for each country must remain unchanged.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you very much for your vote. i'll say two things: firstly, i wanted to express my satisfaction that after dealing with the payment arrears and dealing with some of the crisis with erasmus+, at the end of the debate on culture we are in a fairly good situation. there are no payment arrears, erasmus+ has received good support and the pilot programmes have also gone well in the committee on budgets. i want to thank you very much for that. and the second key thing is that the first programme - the juncker investment programme - did not include those industries that were related to creativity. today we can say that both the youth labour market and the creative industries, which are in the cultural sector, have been taken into account. i hope that the pilot programmes will be developed and that erasmus+, having overcome the obstacle it has overcome this year, will not have to overcome any more.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when people have freedom, parents have power in their families. when people know that their future is in their own hands, that officials don't interfere with their lives, then economies grow, children are born, and countries become rich and strong. but most of the mps, commissioners and officials don't see it. i'm not saying there's bad intentions - no, most people have good intentions. the problem is that people get elect or appointed, and then they get enlightened, and then they're smart, and then they think that other people are too stupid to make their own decisions. that's why we're spending so much money and increasing the administrative staff. that's why my group's and my own budget-cutting amendments are being rejected. hence the warrants, the restraints, the demoralizing aid programs. the only people who benefit from these programs are not the honest workers, but the smart ones. it's the people who can fill out the paperwork and lick the power that benefit. we don't see that we're taking away people's desire to work. we don't see that we're taking away people's desire to have children. we don't see europe dying. in a few years, there will be no european union, only islamic states. this budget is really nothing more than a testament to the pride and contempt of the hard-working decent people who have to pay for it.
mr president, madam vice-president, sometimes we try to answer the question: should we give more funding to new challenges like refugees or terrorism, or to our long-term priorities? but they are not alternatives. we need to focus on both. long-term strategy will give us tools to better tackle the challenges of today. from the point of the committee i chair, it is first of all competitiveness, growth and jobs. secondly, innovative digitalised economy and energy security. it means, from the point of view of the budget, cosme for competitive smes – very important; horizon 2020; leadership in technological progress; excellence; and the connecting europe facility, digital progress and secure, affordable and clean energy. and let us underline that they are not just costs; they are our investment in the best future. so from the point of view at least of my committee, three of them are of crucial importance.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in taking part in the debate on the 2017 budget on behalf of the polish delegation to the cor, i would like to support the position of the parliament's committee on budgets, which calls for the council's budget cuts to be reversed and calls for commitments to be increased by more than eur 4 billion and payments to be increased by almost eur 2 billion compared to the commission's proposal. we believe that the appropriations for the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes, which were previously reduced in connection with the financing of the so-called juncker plan, should be rebuilt, additional funds should be allocated to increase funds for youth, including erasmus+, to finance job creation and economic growth, to increase appropriations for migration, asylum and security measures, and finally to allocate additional funds to the emergency measures package in the dairy sector. we also support the inclusion of the negotiations on the 2017 budget in the context of the current review of the financial framework for 2014-2020, as this means a budgetary debate that takes into account the wider challenges facing the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the draft budget, which includes a 2.6% increase in commitments and a 1.4% increase in payments compared to the previous draft, is a bad solution for the citizens of the union. budgetary discipline, which is to be and is to be applied by the member states, does not apply to the budget of the union. the question is why? why don't we look for savings in bureaucratic expenditure, in the running costs of the two houses of parliament, the agencies of the european union, the european parliament in different places, the costs of the different missions of the staff of the european parliament? i would also like to look more closely at the representation costs of the president of the european parliament. in the context of the latest report by the european court of auditors, which speaks of the misuse of part of the budgetary appropriations, i would like to express the hope that the comments of the eto will be taken into account in the next budgets.
the next item is the report by mr alfredo santa on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2016 (2016/2102 (ini)) (a8-0309/2016).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have a big problem, no doubt: more than four million young people out of work, many, many millions in temporary work and many, many more in unsatisfactory work. but the appearance of a youth instrument is welcome. he's happy because if we see a problem, we'll be able to solve it. i also want to thank you for including the opinion of the culture committee in this debate, because it shows that the elements of education, the elements of creativity in the market are simply noticed, noticed and not taken lightly. what do we need? firstly, measures to facilitate the entry of young people into the labour market and to facilitate their practical training. the level of funding should be increased, including for programmes such as erasmus+. we also need to make science, technology, engineering, mathematics programmes and studies more attractive, which is all the things that build the chances for greater, better economic development in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament and the commission are strong allies in the drive to reform corporate taxation in europe and to do so with ambition and determination. the strength with which you have taken up this subject, combined with our initiatives - which i believe are ambitious - have already brought about very significant changes. today we are closer to fair and efficient taxation in the european union than we were two years ago and, to be honest, closer than ever. we have made giant strides in tax transparency in the practices of member states and multinationals alike. we have built new barriers to tax base manipulation and profit shifting through new anti-abuse rules that will become binding throughout the european union. the package adopted by the commission today is much more than a mere set of new measures. it is more than an extension of what we have already done together. it is a comprehensive, structural and structural framework for corporate taxation in europe, a new framework that looks to the future and in which corporate taxation will by definition be fair and pro-growth. this framework will enable companies and investors to develop their activities in the european union, not through selective tax breaks or secret tax rescripts, but simply because they will benefit from a tax environment that is simple, readable, stable and also, of course, favourable to economic activity. for me, transparency and competitiveness go hand in hand. finally, it is a framework in which all companies, large and small, pay their taxes where they make their profits and create wealth. at the heart of the package adopted today is a project which i know is strongly supported and even wanted by this house: the revival of the common consolidated corporate tax base, namely the ccctb. the ccctb aims to tax enterprises in a way that reflects the true spirit of the single market, namely firstly uniform rules for the calculation of taxable profits; then a single tax return to be completed through a single window; finally, a system of profit sharing between member states which can then tax them at their national rates. companies will also be rewarded for their growth-oriented activities through important new elements in this version of the ccctb, because we have chosen - and i think it was rational - not to represent the same text that was rejected by the council, given the debates that had taken place and also the new context in which we are working. we've set up a super deduction for research and development. i would like to stress this point because we are really making a considerable effort in this area and we are showing a very strong will for research and development. in other words, companies investing in research and development will be able to deduct from their tax base one and a half times what they have spent. this incentive will be even more generous and will be up to 200% for young and innovative companies start-ups , which will be able to deduct the amount of the costs exposed to this amount. we have also introduced a measure in the ccctb which will promote corporate financing on the capital markets - consistent with our pursuit of a single capital market - by correcting the debt bias that currently exists in most corporate tax regimes. the objective is to foster and promote healthier financing, stronger capital markets and greater economic stability. the ccctb will also have the advantage of eliminating many cases of double taxation. however, until such a common consolidated basis is in place, we will still need an effective solution for non-ccisc companies. there are over 900 cases of double taxation currently being litigated in the european union, which of course generates enormous costs and a lot of legal uncertainty for the companies involved. that is why we are also proposing today an improved system for resolving double taxation disputes. we want to guarantee companies a solution, which is long-term, predictable and definitive, in cases where they are taxed more than once on the same income. the ccctb is a powerful tool for preventing and countering corporate tax evasion. as requested by the european parliament, we have proposed that ccctb be made compulsory for the largest multinationals. the ccctb will incorporate the measures already adopted by the member states in the directive against tax evasion and today we are adding to these provisions a final measure to combat hybrid arrangements with third countries and therefore outside the european union. why relaunch the accis? i know that this house has been waiting for this project for a long time and has long supported the benefits that should flow from it. i also know that companies are eager to get this device up and running as quickly as possible. and i can understand that some people are doubtful about the chances of success of the cfsp, given the lack of agreement on the previous proposal. let me try to instill a little optimism on this point because this time it's different. it is different because we have a better proposal, a better approach, a more favourable policy environment also, given all the events that have taken place in recent years and the progress that has already been made in corporate taxation. our proposal is strengthened. the fact that it is mandatory makes it a powerful tool in the fight against tax evasion, while the incentives, which i have already mentioned, improve the ability of our taxation to support employment, growth and stability. our approach is not only strengthened, it is also more pragmatic. we propose a two-step approach. first, member states must define the common base to start quickly to benefit from the benefits it offers. secondly, consolidation will also have to be implemented quickly. i would nevertheless like to emphasize strongly - because i know that this is a subject on which we can ask questions and that it may be tempting in the discussions to come in the council - that these two steps are closely linked. the commission does not consider that consolidation should be abandoned or postponed indefinitely, since consolidation alone will give the common base its full significance. we want a comprehensive agreement in two phases, not a first phase followed by another that would be postponed to the greek calendar and risk being split up. i aim to have this consolidation in place by 2021 at the latest. i am counting on the european parliament to continue to put pressure on our member states to achieve this objective because, as i said, we have your support, that of the businesses and the ngos, but the ball is, as usual, in the court of the member states. i'm getting to my very last point. today, i believe we have the environment, if not ideal, at least optimal to relaunch accis. given all the advantages of this project, we expect the member states to work towards adopting this proposal quickly. i would like to conclude by thanking this house for its long-standing support for the accis project and by urging you - but is it necessary? i know that it is not - to play your full part and to weigh in on the adoption of the proposals presented today. today we have the opportunity to build a fairer and more stable europe and a more competitive corporate taxation in europe for the benefit of our citizens, our businesses and our union as a whole. at a time when europe is under attack and populism is on the rise, this is a project that is part of a more transparent and fairer approach to taxation, the need for which is understood by our citizens and the usefulness of which. so this is a good example of europe again, and i invite you to support it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the commission’s proposal for a single set of corporate tax rules for doing business in the eu. the present situation with 28 different corporate tax systems co-existing within one single market is untenable. it puts an unnecessary administrative burden on companies, reduces their international competitiveness and creates ample opportunities for them to engage in aggressive tax planning practices. why would you oppose the harmonisation of national tax rates across the eu? there is clearly a need to harmonise national regulations in the area of corporate tax base. firstly, we want to be serious about fighting tax avoidance and tax evasion in the eu. we want to make sure that taxes are paid where the value is created. that is why we need a common framework for corporate taxation that is simple, effective and transparent. secondly, we all want our companies to fully exploit the enormous potential of the single market. for that we need common european rules on corporate taxation, which would facilitate trade and investment across the eu, and eliminate unfair tax competition. that is why a european directive on common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is urgently needed. let me draw your attention to three interesting novelties that were mentioned by the commissioner here. the first is the very generous tax treatment on r&d expenditure, the second is the preferential treatment of innovative start—ups, and the third is a rule against the debt-bias. all of them deserve our support. commissioner, we are ready to work with you on this proposal.
in writing. i would like to welcome the european commission's proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). it is an important step in the right direction in the fight against tax evasion. however, i would personally be in favour of lowering the turnover threshold for companies subject to the rules below the proposed eur 750 million. i think the current system is unfair because it allows big multinational corporations to shift profits to the lowest tax rates, and taxes are levied on companies that don't have that option.
madam president! equal access for citizens to public authority and public institutions is the foundation of democracy and civil society. this is extremely important in both the real and virtual worlds, but it is particularly relevant in today's digital age, and it is particularly relevant for people with disabilities. for some of them, contact with public authorities, with public institutions via the internet is the only chance they have to have a connection with their country, their government or with a public institution. therefore, the idea that is being implemented in the project is extremely important and worthy of support. it is also important to remember that the virtual world today - and probably even more so in the future - will be one of the main areas of self-realization of the citizen, which is why the final outcome of these works is important. but it's also worth remembering that the responsibilities of the state, the public institution, and the private sector cannot be equated, and the issues we're talking about today need to be addressed effectively by the institutions and the public sector, but they shouldn't be imposed on the private sector.
madam president, please! i had a speech prepared, but i'm throwing it out because i have to react to what's been said in this room. first of all , i 'd like to offer my private history tutorials for the lady in 't velt: poland in the 18th century didn't disappear from the map of europe because it had a bad sejm, but because it was divided by three invaders: russia, prussia and austria. i'm happy to give you that history lesson in the near future. we heard about juncker's plan here. i would very much like juncker's plan to be something that finally creates an investment opportunity and an opportunity for companies in the new union, that is, in the countries that joined the union after 2004. for now, it seems that, while it is clearly an opportunity, it is only for the 15 countries. this can't be happening. finally, i would like to say to mr weber that as far as ceta is concerned, it is also a matter for the council and the member states, not just the european parliament.
if it is true that the european union develops through crises, then one can only envy mr tusk and mr juncker that they are leading the european union in such interesting times. but i am not envious, because i know that the battle for the credibility of european institutions, both internal and global, is being fought in fields where, unfortunately, fear and emotion now prevail over reason and argument. since the insecurity of europeans has been combined with migration and refugees, the future of the european union is being decided here. if the nation-state is the only safe haven in the imagination of europeans, the future of the community is in mortal danger. fortunately, there is a growing awareness that there is no effective national response, only an effective european response to these challenges. unfortunately, the european union's ability to act and its credibility as a global player are being overshadowed by the tragedy of ceta. we're hostages in the same region. it's a guilty situation. i hope (there is still a chance) that we will get out of this mess, but the european union's capacity to act and its credibility will be - even if we do - severely weakened. indeed, the mission of the european summits is to build a sense of usefulness and credibility in the european institutions, and i hope that the next summits will contribute to this.
madam president! i think that these three issues that were outlined by your president of the council, donald tusk - migration, trade, russia - were of course the most exciting in the part about ceta. but the migration issue seems to be really at the forefront, because here's the good news: the flow of migrants to the greek islands has decreased, and there are positive effects of working with the african countries where the migration originates. that's where we need to counter it. another issue is the issue of border protection. we have all agreed by now that securing and protecting our borders is both about addressing the difficult issue of migration and about ensuring the safety of those people. and trade issues not just ceta, but also anti-dumping. i believe that this is crucial for the stability and development of our industry, and in particular the steel sector.
in writing. the european council of 20 and 21 october 2016 summarised the issues on comprehensive migration policy. the entry into force of the european border guard regulation was an important step towards strengthening the union's external borders. the newly created patrol will, among other things, verify the ability of member states to control borders and organise joint operations to counter cross-border crime. however, increased efforts are needed to deter irregular migrants, especially those from africa. the council's position is that a lasting stabilisation of the situation along the eastern mediterranean route will require full implementation of the eu-turkey agreement and further support for the countries along the western balkan route. it is also necessary to complete and implement by 2018 the individual single market strategies, including the digital single market, the capital markets union, the energy union and the single market agenda. in this context, work on the recent european commission projects, including the draft reform of eu telecommunications and copyright law, and on the completion of the capital markets union should be undertaken urgently, in particular by rapidly reaching an agreement with the european parliament on the prospectus rules to improve access to finance for companies.
in writing. during today's debate on the european council conclusions, both the right and the left wing of the ep criticised the council for its ineffectiveness on the ceta agreement blocked by one of the belgian parliaments. there were also many voices to ignore the wallonia parliament's opinion and sign the agreement despite its opposition, since the other 27 states consider it to be beneficial. i don't agree with the criticism or the solution. meps who want a europe of the people, or at least a europe, must understand that the consequences are disruptive in decision-making, such as those at ceta. the 'europe of the peoples' approach means that the 'least common denominator' policy is now being criticised and that the council must be given the instruments to facilitate negotiations. secondly, i think the council's decision to take account of the wallonia veto is right: it is simply a consequence of the earlier decision to have a mixed agreement. if other countries or members consider the walloon decision to be harmful, they should persuade them to change their minds, not pressure the president of the council to ignore the accepted rules of the game. on the migration crisis, the council has taken the right decisions, including the conclusion of the agreement with turkey and the strengthening of the protection of the eu's external borders. the implementation of these provisions reduced the influx of illegal immigrants by 98%. this is a major step forward in a cause that has shaken the eu and remains one of its toughest challenges.
in writing. the entry into force of the european border and coast guard regulation, cooperation with african countries, support for lebanon and jordan, and the implementation of the agreement with turkey are further steps towards taking control of illegal immigration and the flow of refugees into the eu. according to the international organization for migration, 340,000 migrants arrived at the eu's borders in 2016. that's relatively much less than in previous years, but still, objectively, a lot! it is therefore important to be aware that we still have a long way to go before the systems agreed today are put into effect and fulfilled their role. we're on the right track, though. i was concerned to hear that the adoption of the canada trade agreement (ceta) was delayed. the european union is a testament to the positive effect of a balanced but above all open trade policy. consumers are benefiting from it. so we should not be swayed by the oversimplifications and half-truths of those who oppose the agreement. it is in our community interest to adopt it. i therefore hope that the deadlock on the approval of ceta can be overcome as soon as possible.
mr president, in the papers, the correction, the budget line is 15 02 77 19 but i have in the polish translation 77 20 not 19. what is the correct number?
in writing. ‒ on the draft general budget of the european union for 2017, i have decided to vote against many amendments with which i do not agree. my group, the ecr, has consistently taken the view that the eu budget should be limited, that the same budgetary discipline applied to national expenditure should apply to eu expenditure. this is all the more so as the eu faces a number of new challenges since the spending ceilings were agreed in 2013. i believe that in the present situation the budget should be made more efficient without the need for increased contributions from the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 because i welcome its provisions. given the situation in the world, i consider it important to create a new budget line for the 'fund for victims of terrorism'. the purpose of this fund is to guarantee both financial and psychological support to victims of terrorism. the report referred to the need to increase the expenditure ceilings for specific actions supporting the youth employment initiative and the dairy sector. the report describes very important issues and proposes concrete solutions. those are the reasons i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today we decided that the appropriations for commitments in 2017 should be eur 160.7 billion, eur 4.1 billion more than the european commission's draft, and that the amount for payments should be eur 2.5 billion more, for a total of eur 136.7 billion. an additional €1.5 billion is needed to help young people enter the labour market. in addition, measures are needed to support economic growth and to help third countries in the context of the ongoing migration crisis. in this context, we have not agreed to any cuts introduced by the european council. the addition of eur 1.24 billion to the amount provided for in the draft budget for the connecting europe facility for infrastructure projects and for horizon 2020, which supports research projects, will also contribute to economic growth in the union. the financing of the agreement with turkey and other temporary funds should not be set at the expense of the eu's existing external policy. the additional funds will be generated by new appropriations received as a result of the ongoing revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ on 28 september, the committee on budgets voted on 2221 amendments to the council's position on the eu budget for 2017. the vote will result in a net increase of eur 4.07 billion over the commission's proposal. the proposal includes eur 160.6 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 136.7 billion in payments. the draft resolution on the 2017 eu budget is the political position of the european parliament before the annual budgetary negotiations with the commission and the council. in addition to the withdrawal of all council cuts, the most significant changes in the commission's estimates include €1.5 billion for the youth employment initiative, €600 million for support to the dairy sector and an additional €1.24 billion to offset the efsi through cuts to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. however, these changes leave no room for manoeuvre in the event of unforeseen events in 2017, and the rapporteur therefore proposes to increase the expenditure ceilings by providing 'new resources' in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the mff, which aims to increase the ceilings for specific actions (the employment initiative, horizon 2020, the migration partnership). in my view, if there is a possibility of increasing the amount for such important programmes with a number of benefits, it should be used. in addition, the resolution calls for greater flexibility and the removal of certain restrictions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing the european union today, such as migration, the internal security crisis and youth unemployment, have made it necessary to carry out a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. the commission's proposals are good, with more flexibility and a crisis reserve. it is regrettable that the commission has not proposed raising the current ceilings of the mff. i hope that the solutions proposed by the commission are only a starting point for further negotiations. this revision is not only an opportunity to find money for new needs, but also an opportunity to prevent the lack of funds for unforeseen obligations.
in writing. ‒ changes to the mff are absolutely necessary. the ep report expressed the conviction that the revision of the mff represents a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently threatening the credibility of the european union, while calling on the council to ensure a credible, coherent, realistic and balanced eu budget for the remaining years of the current financial perspective. the document reiterated its call for the full balancing of the cuts to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. it also called for the youth employment initiative to be continued. moreover, the ongoing migration and refugee crisis, which was unforeseeable when the mffs were established, requires an increase in the available resources to deal with the impact of the current situation. at the same time, it called for a significant increase in the flexibility of the union budget to enable it to respond more effectively to the new challenges facing the community today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the petroleum and chemicals sector. i support the overall objective of the fund to help workers find jobs and develop their skills when they are lost as a result of changes in the global trade pattern. the actions carried out under the fund include: providing training (including language training) to a group of around 800 employees, vocational counselling, and funding for studies. i welcome the fact that concrete measures will be taken to help workers re-enter the labour market, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to counter the negative effects of mass redundancies, which are a consequence of global changes in the labour market and trade. estonia's request to mobilise the fund is a reflection of the turmoil in world oil markets and the weakening of europe's position in international fertiliser trade. these changes have forced the closure of the estonian companies eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as in these two sectors and the reduction of production, resulting in the redundancy of 800 employees. training, traineeships, educational scholarships and incentives to learn estonian through the fund will be essential to support these workers in their return to the labour market. policies that promote growth and jobs deserve support. however, i have serious doubts that the european globalisation adjustment fund mechanism is a tool that can effectively help displaced workers to integrate into the labour market. i believe that each situation requires individual and careful evaluation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications because i fully support its purpose. it is very important to harmonise the provisions in force in the member states on making both websites and applications more accessible, especially for people with disabilities (in particular blind, visually impaired and hard of hearing people). enabling text to change colour and size, providing speech to read text and describe images, and allowing browsing without a mouse are some of the main practical solutions to facilitate accessibility for people with disabilities. i am happy to accept the provisions of the directive, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there are about 80 million disabled people in the european union. by 2020, that number could rise to as many as 120 million as our population ages. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean countries and the countries of central and eastern europe, in order to provide the union with a comprehensive overview of the measures taken to implement the union's macro-financial assistance. the european parliament today backed the first eu legislation to make public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications more responsive to the needs of disabled and older people. the directive aims to ensure the accessibility of websites and applications by making them more functional and understandable. there are also a number of tools that enable disabled people to use websites, such as special screen readers or devices that allow you to work on a computer without using a mouse. joint action by all member states to ensure that websites are accessible to union citizens will contribute to the development of an inclusive digital society and to the benefits of the single market. the fulfilment of these requirements for public sector bodies is particularly important as it will provide citizens with access to a range of public services.
in writing. ‒ equal access to public information for citizens, including people with disabilities, is a cornerstone of modern democracy and civil society. it's incredibly important in both the real and virtual worlds. it is crucial for people with disabilities, because for some of them, access to public institutions via the internet is the only way to maintain a connection with their government, their state. the idea of the project therefore deserves our full support. the virtual world will be one of the main areas of citizens' self-fulfilment, which is why the final report of the european parliament is so important. however, it should be borne in mind that no confusion can be created between the responsibilities of public institutions and the private sector. the tasks we're talking about today need to be effectively done by the public sector, but they shouldn't be imposed from the top down on the private sector. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because of its particular importance for disabled people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the regulation on protective measures against plant pests. although the report sets an ambitious objective of establishing principles for identifying the phytosanitary risks associated with any type of pest on plants or plant products, the regulation does not address the most important issues. in my view, the most important actions to be taken in this area are to protect trade and avoid excessive bureaucracy. the regulation does not focus on such important issues at all, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report is technical and sectoral in nature, but its political sense is positive. it is intended to enhance the enforcement of standards relating to the health and safety of plants, animals and humans. the restrictions on trade provided for shall not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objective. the new law should not lead to excessive bureaucracy. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2016 because i believe that this report should focus on other aspects of the eu. in my view, the report should focus more on the role of member states in implementing structural reforms than on improving social sentiment, which is the objective of the eu's economic recovery. the report also calls for the completion of the banking union and the territorial alignment of the european fund for strategic investments projects. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european semester, the procedure for coordinating economic and budgetary policies in the european union, is also a great opportunity to see how the individual countries of the community are implementing reforms to build a well-functioning and integrated european single market. in my opinion on the report assessing the implementation of this year's priorities under the european semester, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection emphasised that many member states are delaying or not fully implementing eu directives and regulations. broad support for smes and start-ups, tackling excessive administrative burdens, full implementation and application of the services directive, recognition of professional qualifications and access to regulated professions, and finally building the digital single market are examples of areas that both the european commission and individual member states should prioritise. otherwise we will not be able to unlock the full potential of the european single market, which is the opportunity for growth and job creation that europe so badly needs.
in writing. ‒ the annual report analysed is the european parliament's response to the country-specific recommendations published by the european commission in may 2016. the documents of both institutions form part of the so-called european semester, the annual cycle of guidelines on economic and supervisory policy of the european union. in preparing its recommendations, the commission analysed the plans for budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reform in each member state. given the importance of this procedure, i must emphasise that i do not agree with some of the points in the parliament's report, such as the call for the completion of the banking union or the territorial adjustment of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) projects. i believe that the report should focus more on the importance of member states undertaking major structural reforms, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a draft resolution on limiting the intake of trans fats at eu level. trans-fatty acids are unsaturated fats found in food produced from ruminants and in synthetic partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. unfortunately, the public is very exposed to their consumption, often without being aware of it, because the products made using trans fats are now fast food, fast food or snacks (salty and spicy). studies show that eating these fats leads to cardiovascular or coronary heart disease, which kills around 660 000 people in the eu each year. the draft is a very important issue that needs to be resolved as soon as possible, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ trans fats are one of the most dangerous food ingredients. they increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. they are commonly added to food to improve its texture and to prolong its shelf life. the world health organization reports that eliminating saturated vegetable fats from the diet has significant health benefits. we should take the example of denmark, austria, latvia and hungary, which already have a ban on trans fats in food, and the united states, where the food and drug administration has ordered food manufacturers to eliminate trans fats from their food products by 2018. this will potentially save tens of thousands of lives a year.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution sets out parliament's strategic objectives to reduce the consumption of artificial trans fats at eu level. trans-fatty acids are unsaturated fats found in food produced from ruminants and in synthetic partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. consumption of synthetic vegetable oils has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. high consumption of trans fats is a risk factor particularly conducive to the development of ischaemic heart disease. products currently made using trans fats are fast food, snacks or salty and spicy snacks, which are therefore classified as highly processed foods. although the majority of citizens in the eu member states consume little trans fat, consumption is still significant in some social groups, contributing to excessively high mortality in these groups. since the adoption of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, there has been significant evidence of the benefits of limiting artificial trans fats in food. the resolution calls on the commission to propose mandatory limits for artificial trans fats to protect public health. restrictions on trans fats in food have undoubtedly positive health effects and the industry is not suffering any negative consequences. i hereby support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ trans fats are mainly used in highly processed foods fast food and salty and spicy snacks. consumption of such products increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, including heart failure. mandatory restrictions on trans fats on the internal market would contribute to reducing their consumption. the countries that have done this have shown that it has had a positive impact on the health of their citizens. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of the resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the european court of auditors, congratulations to you. this is a big challenge, and obviously i am crossing my fingers for you. thank you, mr president, for your really comprehensive annual report. we can observe some progress here because the estimated level of error for 2015 payments is 3.8%, which is obviously an improvement, but still it is above the materiality threshold. i would like to concentrate on one specific issue, which was reported in the past by the european court of auditors, as well as indicated by the current members. this is that a long, seven-to-ten-year, cash flow forecast is needed. the commission was requested to prepare this, but still has not done it. short-term cash flow forecasting by the commission, to ensure that that the immediate payment obligations of the eu can be met, is not enough. finally, as you can see, amounts to be paid in the current and future years remain at a high level. the commission made a high level of commitments in 2015, consisting in part of appropriations brought forward from 2014. amounts to be funded from the future budget rose to eur 339 billion. however, the commission has not produced yet a cash flow forecast spanning a seven-to-ten-year horizon.
mr. chairman, mr. president, vice president georgieva, i have to tell you that i have been very busy. i wish we could stop at some point saying how bad, how difficult, how extraordinary, how theatrical or cinematic it is, because an event like the discharge and the court of auditors report happens here every year. it's perfectly normal. secondly, i'd like to point out that today's debate is different from the previous ones because we have a new president. and the new president declared, first of all, the continuation of all that is good (as i am the counter-reporter, mr. zeller and i will look at this good). but he also declared efforts to restore or, rather, build trust. and i would consider that a very important thing: building trust. mrs. georgieva, on the other hand, mentioned one more thing, which is simplification. it is felt that with each passing year the procedures become more complex and the results are unsatisfactory. why not combine the two and build trust based on simplifying procedures? but i want to make it very clear again: we are focused on the results we achieve, not necessarily on the half percent we lose.
in writing. the european court of auditors is responsible for auditing the european union's finances. it is an independent external auditor whose task is to examine the legality and regularity of all eu expenditure and revenue and to assess the soundness and regularity of budget management. eto is active throughout the european union. it shall cooperate with the supreme inspection authorities of the member states and the international organisations intosai and eurosai. within these bodies, it participates in the development of international standards for the control of public finances. the eto college shall consist of twenty-eight members, one from each eu member state. they shall be appointed for a term of six years by the council of the european union after consulting the european parliament. the european parliament has the power to give an opinion on candidates for the etu under article 286 (2) of the treaty. the requirements to be met by a candidate for the european court of auditors are set out in detail in article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and these criteria alone should decide whether he is appointed by the council to the etu, because they alone form the basis for the european parliament's opinion in a transparent manner. it is therefore deeply concerned that over the past three years in 2013 (1 candidate) and in 2016 (2 candidates) the council has appointed three members of the court with a negative opinion from the european parliament. a negative opinion of the european parliament deprives them of the legitimacy conferred by the treaty.
on october 17, the long-awaited offensive began on mosul, the last great jihadist stronghold in iraq. this offensive is being conducted from several directions simultaneously by iraqi special forces and kurdish peshmerga with the support of the us and the uk. prime minister al-abadi has already expressed his satisfaction with the pace of the operation, but we all know that it is likely to be long and very difficult, especially for the civilian population. let us hope that it will lead to the final liberation of these people. i am in favour of the european union's engagement in humanitarian aid and cooperation within the un and other organisations going as far as possible. i also think that the proposals of mr adaktusson on the future arrangements for minorities, including christians, deserve our attention because they are very interesting.
the european parliament is back in the debate on the situation in iraq in the face of the offensive on mosul. people are dying all the time, christians. in february of this year, our house passed a special resolution that the so-called islamic state is committing genocide against christians, yazidis and other minorities. in the resolution which our group of european conservatives and reformists is preparing, we are showing the scale of these crimes. thirteen years ago, there were 1.5 million christians in iraq. today, the number is estimated at between 200,000 and 350,000. there are christian self-defense forces operating in the area, which are working with the iraqi army, but they need the necessary help. and that is what we are calling for in our resolution. the european union must also be more involved in humanitarian aid.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague lars adaktusson, who was the initiator of this debate. he's the one who suggested we talk about it, given the ongoing offensive in the suburbs of mosul. we all agree that defeating isis, taking mosul, is just the beginning of the whole problem that we're going to have to solve. i fully agree with what the commissioner said, that we must find humanitarian solutions, but also help to reconcile, to build multiethnicity and multi-religion in this area. the war will also bring another wave of migration; we don't know how big. it all depends on the progress of the military forces. but we can also expect a humanitarian catastrophe. on october 19, media reported that the town of al hamdanyia, a former christian stronghold, located 40 kilometers southeast of mosul, had been hit. how strange it sounds, an ancient center of christianity. after all, there were about 140,000 christians living there. there's not many left. we must therefore follow the call of member lars adaktusson and help christians and people of other religions to return to areas that were once theirs as well.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the european commission very much appreciates the european parliament’s long-standing interest and our cooperation on this important neighbouring country. the high representative’s intervention to you on belarus dates from september last year and we had just witnessed the release of the remaining political prisoners and were hoping to engage in a longer-term strategy focused on building links between the european union and belarus and on supporting reforms for the people of belarus, which are badly needed. one year on, there have been a number of noteworthy developments on the eu-belarusian scene. in recognition of the political prisoners’ release and of a number of positive steps taken by belarus over the last years, the eu lifted most of the restrictive measures against belarus in february of this year. an important factor which contributed to this decision was belarus’ constructive stance on this crisis in and around ukraine which persists today. in the council conclusion on belarus adopted in february, the european union and member states expressed their concern about the human rights situation and particularly also about the continued application of capital punishment. at the same time, we agreed that there was an opportunity for our relationship – for eu-belarus relations – to develop on a more positive agenda and that progress in a variety of fields can better be achieved through enhanced channels of communication. since then, cooperation in areas of common interest has been stepped up. in april the commission adopted a delegated act which made belarus eligible for eib lending. this will bolster support for the belarusian private sector. an agreement was signed between olaf and belarus in july on customs cooperation, in particular in fighting the illicit trade in cigarettes, and the sectoral dialogue on customs and related topics is still foreseen to be launched by the end of the year. a trade dialogue was launched this month, on 13 october, between the european commission dg for trade and belarus in view of improving trade, discussing belarus’ access to the wto and addressing existing barriers in international trade. a mobility partnership was signed also this month, also on 13 october, in view on enhancing cooperation on migration, asylum and border management. this will contribute in tackling the migration challenges, protection of refugees, prevention and combating trafficking in human beings. the european union stepped up its financial support for 2016 to eur 29 million – more than a doubling of the budget initially planned for 2016. assistance is focused on regional and private sector development, support for migration and asylum management, and support for students. we are also intensifying our cooperation in the area of energy. as part of a re-engagement with belarus, the commission is considering relaunching the formal eu-belarus energy dialogue in the near future. nuclear safety issues have always been an overall eu concern, especially when new facilities are being constructed on the border with the eu, and are a key component of the exchanges on energy with belarus. the council’s conclusions adopted on 15 february 2016 reiterate the importance of ensuring nuclear safety beyond the borders of the european union, and call on belarus to cooperate constructively with the relevant international authorities in this regard. in this context, the high-level visit of the competent commission services to belarus took place on 19 and 20 september 2016. in addition, we have continued our strong assistance for civil society and for the promotion of people-to-people contacts. civil society organisations received between 2011 and 2015 over eur 50 million in programmes which strengthen their capacity and further a number of social, economic and human rights issues. hundreds of exchanges are on-going in the areas of education, culture, science and technology and generally youth exchanges. on the human rights front, we have witnessed more openness by the belarusian authorities to engage. eu special representative mr lambrinidis visited minsk in march this year, where we had a meeting with president lukashenko and participated in a conference on the death penalty. in june, the belarusians hosted for the first time a european union-belarus human rights dialogue, for a part of which they also invited civil society representatives. at the same time we are fully aware that there have been no concrete or structural changes in belarus democracy and the human rights situation. the application of capital punishment remains an issue which overshadows our relations with the country. this year alone we have learned about one execution, four confirmed death sentences and two new ones. needless to say, this issue remains high on our agenda, and we will continue engaging with belarus on this. both the presidential election of october 2015 and the parliamentary election of last month were criticised by the osce for falling short of democratic standards and for not addressing a number of key osce and council of europe venice commission recommendations. nevertheless we welcome the entry into parliament of the first non-establishment voices for the first time in 12 years, and we hope they can bring fresh air and new ideas into a chamber that during the last tenure introduced less than five new legislative initiatives. as indicated in our statement of 20 september, the european union calls on belarus to undertake comprehensive electoral reforms. the next elections are not so far away. municipal elections will take place in 2018, and real progress on this and a number of other human rights-related topics will remain key for achieving the full potential of eu-belarus relations. therefore the eu’s policy towards belarus remains for the time being one of critical engagement. we are not yet ready to launch negotiations with the belarusian government on a legal framework agreement, even if it remains a mid- to long-term goal. our efforts will continue to focus on increasing engagement with all sectors of belarus society and developing relations, including in the framework of the eastern partnership.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! belarus is not an easy or spectacular subject, but it is certainly an interesting one, and i would be careful not to dismiss it. we are in the aftermath of a double election in belarus: presidential and parliamentary. in both cases we have had to deal with the disregard of the osce recommendations, and so it can be said that these elections did not meet the standards that we are familiar with. but it is also difficult not to notice other elements that appear in the belarusian policy and which the commissioner also spoke about , namely, first of all, the release of political prisoners, the reduction of various types of repression, the fact that some of these repressions are more hidden or mild. they certainly do, but now if you want to expel students from a university for their political views, you simply give them a negative assessment. the resolution we are proposing is a balanced resolution. it shows both the shortcomings that the commissioner also mentioned, namely the lack of a memorandum on the execution of the death penalty and the failure to respect democratic standards, but also some progress that has undoubtedly been made. it is our duty, our task, to find new channels of communication. i want to thank all those who have cooperated in the proposed document. they were people from both the left and the right of the political scene. the cooperation with ms hautala, ms kalniete and the representatives of the ecr has enabled the drafting of a document which, on the one hand, defends european values and, on the other, points to the need to seek ways of dialogue that are open to the interests of the belarusian community, but not to those of the authorities. and finally, i would like to mention two representatives in the belarusian parliament who were not elected by the people, but by the administration, but they are part of a certain contact.
for ten years i have been convincing poland - mr zdrojewski is a witness - that the only chance to save the independence of belarus is to keep his excellency alexander lukashenko in power. i've been trying to convince you for two years. do you realize that if you had brought democracy to belarus, in two years mr. putin and his green men would have joined belarus? only lukashenko, who takes care of his chair, is the guarantee of the independence of this state. and i want belarus, ukraine, lithuania, to separate poland from russia. i like russia very much, but the further it is from poland, the more i like it. the same applies to the european union. it is in the union's interest to defend the independence of belarus, whether it is a democracy or not. it's important that it's the country that separates us from russia. you've got to understand the basics of geopolitics, not your silly human rights talk.
madam chairman, madam commissioner, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! history teaches humility, and so should the european union. i remember that a number of years ago, mr lukashenka was visited by two foreign ministers: the polish foreign minister, mr sikorski, and the german foreign minister, mr westerwelle. mr. lukashenko took pictures with them, which then served to show him that he was a pretty cool guy. i'm all for opening up to belarus. yes, it is necessary. it's what we need to get minsk out of russia's hands. and it should go in that direction, but you can't give carte blanche. we can't write checks like that to mr. lukashenko. you have to open up, of course, but you also have to check trust and check especially check. i don't think we should be naive here. geopolitically, this openness is very necessary, but let us be aware that lukashenko will be the lawmaker between russia and us, and we must ensure that he is closer to european standards.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to thank mr bogdan zdrojewski for the resolution he is preparing, which breaks with the tradition of this house of listing only what is not in belarus, and also lists positive facts about this country. it is an important neighbour of the european union on its eastern wall and, because of its geopolitical position, must balance between east and west, understand and participate in both worlds. i think it is good that the european union is moving away from isolationism and intensifying dialogue with belarus. we should develop this dialogue so that it is not only based on dialogue but also on joint ventures, projects in the fields of economics, science and civil society. the economic situation in belarus is quite tragic at the moment. paradoxically, this is a very good time for change, because belarus has little to lose and can make significant and more radical changes in its economy and politics, and the european union, which is one of the lenders and also the guarantor of third-country loans to belarus, the donor of money, has a real tool to play in this process, an empowering role. how did you do that? first of all, by very strict control of the funds spent, but also by additional requirements. after all, we can demand that the money that goes to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in belarus and projects of this kind be partly spent by the developing businesses in belarus for the benefit of civil society. we can demand that these companies develop corporate social responsibility, that they develop or integrate into the social economy, popularize the belarusian language and so on. question to the commission: does the financial assistance we are giving to belarus include such additional conditions?
thank you. i acknowledge the very modest softening of the lukashenko regime, yet i have to raise a very specific issue that was already mentioned by many of my colleagues, namely the astravets nuclear power plant and also because this russia-led, very unsafe construction is to be located in grodno oblast, a territory heavily populated by people of polish descent. therefore i share very much indeed the concern voiced by my lithuanian colleagues. i think that this construction should be checked very specifically by the commission and i consider efforts taken to date as very insufficient.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, for a long time, russia was considered a responsible steward of nuclear arsenals. this situation changed rapidly with the annexation of crimea and militarisation of this peninsula. this step not only undermined the budapest memorandum but the whole system of international non-proliferation and the credibility of this system. it was aggravated quite recently by the deployment of iskander-m nuclear-capable missiles to kaliningrad and the testing of further missiles. international communities should reconsider their policies vis-à-vis russia and find an effective way of deterring this country.
rapporteur. – madam president, the discharge for the european council is the main issue of the discharge procedure. the difficulties repeatedly encountered in the discharge procedures to that date, which were due to a lack of cooperation from the council, led to a refusal to grant discharge to the secretary-general of the council. parliament, in relation to the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, postponed its decision on granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in relation to the financial year 2014. the council continues to be silent in relation to the remarks made by parliament in its discharge resolution of 28 april on the trend from previous years of increasing underspending and carryovers of commitments, the high underspending rate and the very high number of appropriations, as well as major transfers within budget lines. these problems could be avoided with better budgetary programming. moreover, the council has still not adopted a code of conduct, which is indispensable to the transparency, accountability and integrity of the institution. whistle-blowing rules should be implemented by the council by introducing them into the code of conduct without further delay. the council definitely should disclose the relevant documents and put in place a clear reporting system that will enable the public to follow the legislative procedures in an open and transparent manner. the council definitely has to increase transparency and integrity with regard to the negotiations. lack of transparency with regard to the legislative process of negotiations, member states’ positions and meetings with the council, trilogues and conciliation meetings above all undermines the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency and it is becoming a cause of concern reflecting, as it does, a certain democratic deficit within the union institutions. the council should join the european union transparency register to ensure transparency and accountability of the institution. moreover, the council should provide information on its process of administrative modernisation. has the council already introduced the process of organisation aimed at using modern management methods to be efficient? we call for the information on the process and we would like to see the anticipated impact on the council’s budget. we also call on the council to develop detailed anti-corruption guidelines and independent policies within its structures.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you for the very comprehensive debate. the issue of the council of the european union and the european council is the most urgent to be dealt with. the council ought to be transparent and fully accountable to union citizens for the funds entrusted to it by taking part fully and in good faith in the annual discharge procedure, just as other union institutions do. article 15 tfeu stipulates that each institution, body, office or agency is to ensure that its proceedings are transparent. in this regard, the effective supervision of the union’s budget implementation requires cooperation between parliament and the council through a working arrangement. here we have to clearly say that only three out of some 20 questions submitted to the council by the members of the committee on budgetary control in relation to financial year 2014 within the discharge exercise, which means that there is still no proper cooperation and no correct dialogue. the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as the other institutions until the fundamental elements of such scrutiny have been laid down in its discharge resolutions of the past years. we, the members of the european parliament, are using here our competences laid down by the treaties. parliament’s prerogative to grant discharge is introduced by articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty, in line with current interpretation and practice, namely to grant discharge of each budget heading dually in order to maintain transparency and democratic compatibility towards union taxpayers. also, under rule 94 of parliament’s rules of procedure, the provisions governing the procedure for granting discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget shall likewise apply to the procedure for granting discharge to persons responsible for the implementation of the budgets of other institutions and bodies of the european union, such as the council as regards its activity as executive. this is nothing new. finally, we have to strongly say that the lack of cooperation between the european council and the council with the discharge authority constitutes a serious failure to comply with the obligation laid down by the treaties, and we believe that the relevant stakeholders need to take the necessary steps to address this issue without further delay. it is also a negative sign to the citizens of the union. it is a big problem and a big challenge for us too.
on behalf of the s&d group. volunteering is a noble activity, but how often it is not fully appreciated! so let me start by thanking all the volunteers for their work, their time, their effort and their energy. volunteering, as a process of self-realisation and learning, benefits both the volunteers themselves and the society as a whole. it is also a major factor in fostering social capital and promoting social and economic cohesion. in the context of international exchange, volunteering has a huge potential for integration. and if it takes place in the european union, it helps to create a european identity. but this potential of cross-border volunteering is not being fully exploited. according to 2014 data, it is estimated that around 92-94 million people were involved in volunteering activities, and only 7 000 in cross-border activities. legal, administrative, social and economic barriers, as well as a lack of appropriate information, prevent the full development of cross-border volunteering. this untapped potential is estimated at around eur 65 million per year. it is therefore necessary to develop a legal framework that defines the status of volunteering, but also the rights and obligations of volunteers. the european charter of the rights and duties of volunteers was rightly mentioned by the president, mrs silvia costa. we have to answer the question why, for example, voluntary residence should not be a legal basis for residence in a country. for people from poorer backgrounds, from disadvantaged backgrounds, for people with disabilities, the huge problem is, for example, the incomplete health benefits, and also often the loss of social benefits, including unemployment benefits. another issue to be addressed is the valuation of skills and competences acquired through volunteering - as the commissioner rightly pointed out. but it is important that this recognition is promoted in the labour market, especially in the recruitment process. to this end, it is essential to work with employers to ensure that they appreciate the importance of volunteering. the recognition of volunteers' time as a qualified contribution (participation) in the case of eu grants should be implemented and promoted as soon as possible, as the commission itself has recently said. the question for the commissioner is: at what stage are the work on this? finally, the local level of volunteering is needed to be strengthened in order to share experiences, but there is a need for high quality information on the possibilities of participating in the programme. in the context of the work on the revision of the erasmus+ programme, it is important to underline - as the commissioner has already done - the enormous importance of this programme for european volunteering. every year, several thousand young people discover a new country through volunteering in erasmus, but volunteer organisations are constantly talking about the need to simplify the application process. i have a question for the commissioner. you were talking about the european solidarity corps. what is the relationship between the corps, volunteering and erasmus+? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. i fully agree with the suggestion made in it. in fact, it is important to ensure that all countries have laws that provide a legal basis for volunteering and volunteering activities. and so far, we have a very diverse status, as well as very diverse rights for volunteers. i also agree with you that good practice in the voluntary movement should be shared. it is not just in the field of volunteering that good practice should be shared.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you were very right to mention the ethical values of volunteering. in this context, do you not find it particularly unethical and reprehensible, for example, for insurers to refuse to cover disabled people who are going on voluntary leave? do you not find it unethical that every volunteer's certificate is preceded by a fee?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it's a very good and important idea, but it's actually been implemented in the member states, in poland, for years. here my colleague from austria was talking about volunteer firefighters. in poland, it's very common. but it's not just about these fixed organizational forms, but also about the event-dependent ones, as they're called now. we had world youth day in poland recently, millions of young people came from all continents and everything went great thanks to the work of thousands of mostly young people, but not only young people, volunteers from all over poland who were very actively involved. for this, i express my heartfelt thanks to them. but it is worth saying that this idea must be supported wisely in order to support the volunteering that already exists, and not one that would be created for example because of eu money, because such situations are bad, unacceptable and would certainly not build the authority of the european union. it's a pity, to tell you the truth, that there are so few of us here today. my colleague from the uk said that there are a few people - well, not a few, i counted more than thirty - but it's really worth supporting this idea, because in my opinion a certain enthusiasm, enthusiasm of young people in different directions should be supported by us - the european parliament, the european union. not only because they choose to do some valuable things to help others, but also because - and i'll end here, mr president - because it allows us to regain our credibility in the eyes of our constituents.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. volunteering as an initiative, which already brings together some 100 million europeans in pursuit of a common goal - helping those in need - requires support and good coordination. volunteering not only increases social commitment but also activates people from different age and social groups, educates and disseminates values such as solidarity, cooperation, leadership and organisational skills and sensitivity to the needs of others. many of the speakers mentioned the anniversary of european voluntary service, which has enabled young people to support initiatives they believe in: helping refugees and migrants, promoting environmental attitudes, helping children and the elderly, or working for ngos. volunteering is not just about helping those in need, but also about investing in your own development and competence. it is also an important tool for civic or european education. it gives young europeans direct exposure to a different culture, people and customs in the countries they help. it is worth mentioning that for many organisations, involving volunteers in the work of these bodies is often an essential part of their functioning. the benefits of this activity are mutual, not only for the parties directly involved, but also have a broad economic dimension and contribute to economic development, generating close to 5% of european gdp. a good example of voluntary activities is the sporting dimension of volunteering. local sports clubs play an important role in the social and cultural life of most member states and therefore these models are worth spreading, also at a pan-european and wider international level. volunteers need spaces to learn and gain experience, but they also need to have the right to appropriate training that will help them to get to know the organisation they work for and the environment in which they will operate better at the first stage. the scale of european volunteering requires simplification of procedures for involving both young people and older people. the key is easy access, a fast registration process and comprehensive information and insurance. participants should also be able to use their skills in other forms of assistance or in regional initiatives. european voluntary service is for people who want more out of life and therefore it is worth supporting them.
madam president! there is a lot to be said about the benefits of volunteering, its contribution to character building, active citizenship and social bonding. so i think we all agree that this is a good thing to support. european voluntary service is a unique project and therefore of particular value. in addition to the above benefits, it also provides young participants with opportunities to travel and explore other cultures and societies. in the face of growing extremism and anti-eu and racist attitudes in europe, the value of building open societies is particularly important. i therefore believe that european volunteering should be strengthened and promoted in order to increase its visibility and reach, also among young people from environments that have not yet benefited or have benefited to a limited extent, including those from rural areas. i believe that a step in this direction would certainly be the formal recognition by the commission of the status of european volunteer.
volunteering is not a sacrifice. volunteering is a conscious choice. it's a willingness to help. it is also very often the desire to check yourself before making life choices or a career choice. almost all of you have talked about volunteering for young people under 30. i would like to emphasise and thereby express my deep appreciation and respect for the elderly volunteers, because more and more of them continue to lead an active life after their professional career, and volunteering allows them to take part in local activities in their city, and thus to spend time, to realize themselves and to help those people whom the state does not have the opportunity or cannot help. often, senior volunteers who work in third-generation universities work in hospitals and hospice settings. and i would like, commissioner, that the money or the special programme be directed to the elderly, about whom we have spoken too little in this room.
in writing. given the high level of youth unemployment in the eu and the often untapped potential of this group, it deserves special attention and support. it is necessary to ensure that young people have adequate education, practical skills and access to the labour market, and to take intensified action to involve as many young people as possible in social activities and bottom-up initiatives. these are the ones that have a huge impact on personal development and contribute to the greater social inclusion of people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. the need to learn foreign languages or to adapt education to the real needs of the market is of great importance. the high potential of non-formal education or development through sport, including the need to create conditions for dual education and vocational alternatives after the end of a sporting career, should also be emphasised. at the same time, the above objectives should be pursued through the widest possible cooperation and based on dialogue with young people.
madam president! i must confess that i was surprised to read the report in its original form, which questioned the financial and quantitative approach to agricultural production and called into question new technologies and crops. i come from poland and i would like to say that before 1989 even the communists in poland did not question such things. but i think the text is a little better today. the first point to be commended is article 51, which provides for equal direct payments for farmers in the european union. if we want to build a fair internal market, the conditions for agricultural activity must be equal. the second pillar of the common agricultural policy should support sustainable development and diversification of activities into forms such as energy production and small and micro-enterprises in trade and services.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the 2014 eu general budget and i wish to express my refusal to grant discharge. the report describes in detail the process of discharge by the european council and parliament. neither the eu council nor the european council in general was involved in this process, and i therefore decided not to grant discharge and therefore to support the content of the report by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted on its final report on the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2014. at this stage of the procedure, parliament could either grant discharge or refuse to grant it. for a number of reasons, i voted for the latter. the council and the european council did not participate in the discharge process. none of the institutions has presented its annual activity report to parliament. nor have we received transparent data on the costs incurred for the construction investments and the modernisation of the administration. the court of auditors has not issued a certificate of assurance on the implementation of the eu budget as a whole. the european council and the council, as beneficiaries of the general budget, must act in a transparent manner. they are accountable to the public for the way they manage the funds entrusted to them. i supported the report, which refused to grant discharge, and i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge report for 2014, specifically for the eniac joint undertaking, which means that i am not giving my discharge. i see no progress in the implementation of the eniac project. i am not convinced by the arguments that the failure to grant discharge in spring 2016 was due solely to the lack of information necessary to calculate the error rate for audits carried out by the member states and the different system for calculating errors. i therefore voted against the report calling for discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. it should be recalled that the discharge was strongly opposed by the court of auditors, the institution responsible for auditing the union's accounts, in the spring. in its qualified opinion, the court pointed out a number of irregularities, including the lack of information necessary to calculate the level of error in the audits carried out by the member states. despite the transmission of additional documents by the national authorities, i have doubts whether the existing irregularities have been eliminated. at this stage of the procedure, parliament has only two options: it can either grant discharge (in accordance with the rapporteur's resolution) or refuse to grant it. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge report for 2014, namely the artemis joint undertaking, which means that i did not give my discharge. i don't see any progress on the artemis project. i am not convinced by the arguments that the failure to grant discharge in spring 2016 was due solely to the lack of information necessary to calculate the error rate for audits carried out by the member states and the different system for calculating errors. i therefore voted against the report calling for discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. it should be recalled that the discharge was strongly opposed by the court of auditors, the institution responsible for auditing the union's accounts, in the spring. in its qualified opinion, the court pointed out a number of irregularities, including the lack of information necessary to calculate the level of error in the audits carried out by the member states. despite the transmission of additional documents by the national authorities, i have doubts whether the existing irregularities have been eliminated. at this stage of the procedure, parliament has only two options: it can either grant discharge (in accordance with the rapporteur's resolution) or refuse to grant it. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge report for 2014, specifically the joint undertaking for iter and the development of nuclear energy, which means that i did not give my discharge. i don't see any progress on this project. i am not convinced by the arguments that the failure to grant discharge in spring 2016 was due solely to the lack of information necessary to calculate the error rate for audits carried out by the member states and the different system for calculating errors. i therefore voted against the report calling for discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. it should be recalled that the discharge was strongly opposed by the court of auditors, the institution responsible for auditing the union's accounts, in the spring. in its qualified opinion, the court pointed out a number of irregularities, including the lack of information necessary to calculate the level of error in the audits carried out by the member states. despite the transmission of additional documents by the national authorities, i have doubts whether the existing irregularities have been eliminated. at this stage of the procedure, parliament has only two options: it can either grant discharge (in accordance with the rapporteur's resolution) or refuse to grant it. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in northern iraq and mosul, which aims to ensure that all parties to the conflict comply with international humanitarian law. it is important to guarantee access to medical care and humanitarian aid for civilians and to enable them to leave conflict-affected areas in safety. mosul is the site of a continuing conflict between the iraqi government and its allies and the islamic state, which has occupied the area since 2014. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that action must be taken as soon as possible to improve the situation of iraqi citizens, including those currently in refugee camps.
in writing. ‒ the number of christians in iraq was over 1.5 million in 2003, but has since decreased to 300,000, many of whom now live in poverty and a sense of constant threat. parliament considered the actions of isis in the area to be genocide against christians and yazidis, as well as other religious and ethnic minorities who do not agree with the interpretation of islam adopted by isis/da'esh. the european parliament resolution called on the eu and its member states and the un to cooperate with the national and regional governments of the republic of iraq, as well as with all relevant national and international actors, in order to oversee the peaceful return to their homeland of the indigenous peoples of the nineveh plain, tal afar and sinjar. it also called for the territorial integrity and security of the area to be ensured. there is now a need to step up efforts to address the humanitarian concerns of the iraqi population, in particular children, the elderly, pregnant women and other persons in need of special treatment. if we ignore the situation in the area, the number of people killed and displaced could increase several times over the next few months.
in writing. ‒ iraqi military, with support from allied forces in europe and the us, are conducting operation conquest and fatah against islamic state fighters pushed into northern iraq and the city of mosul. during this operation, the fate of the iraqi people is of particular concern. in just a few days, 5,000 people fled the conflict and found refuge in a refugee camp on the syrian border. thousands more are waiting at the border. the international community must keep a close eye on the situation in northern iraq and mosul. all parties to the conflict must respect international humanitarian law and guarantee the protection of civilians. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the draft resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. of course, i think the eu should express concern about the situation of journalists in this country, where the impact of the july coup attempt to overthrow president erdoğan is still felt. the president is accused of increasingly authoritarian governance and violating the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. the commission and parliament have already expressed concerns in 2015 about the violation of media freedom in turkey. the situation has since deteriorated as many tv stations have been closed and journalists have lost their jobs or been detained. i think that the draft resolution needs to be improved because it does not solve the most important problems, and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the coup attempt in turkey on 15 july 2016 left hundreds dead and over 2,000 injured. a few days later, the turkish authorities declared a state of emergency, which now gives the authorities almost unlimited control over the population. in the aftermath of the coup, the turkish authorities closed the offices of more than 100 newspapers, magazines, publishing houses and distribution companies. at the same time, more than 100 journalists and media workers were detained and 330 lost their jobs. the european parliament resolution strongly condemned the coup in turkey, stressed the importance of protecting democracy and called on the turkish authorities to release journalists and media workers and to reopen closed offices. a free and pluralistic press is an essential element of any democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and judicial independence. the european union and its institutions must therefore make a clear appeal to the turkish authorities to return to the democratic rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the draft resolution on nuclear safety and non-proliferation. i appreciate the efforts of world leaders to narrow international cooperation. in the face of the threat of nuclear terrorism, it is so important to improve security and take action to prevent the proliferation of such weapons. i think that the draft resolution needs to be refined because it is too general and does not contain any precise guidelines on how to counter the problem of nuclear proliferation. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the messages expressing deep concern about the intensification of the nuclear threat as a result of russia's stance with consequences for global security, stability and predictability and the deterioration of relations with nato, including potential violations of the treaty on the elimination of intermediate-range and high-range missiles, statements indicating increased readiness to use nuclear weapons and consideration of the possibility of deploying nuclear weapons in the occupied crimea and the krakow region. i am glad that the ep has drawn attention to russian military exercises simulating the use of nuclear weapons against poland and has expressed its deep concern at the deployment of iskander missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads in the royal district and the fact that russia is conducting exercises and flights using systems capable of carrying nuclear warheads. the european parliament rightly condemns the kremlin's breach of the budapest memorandum and also draws attention to the statements by russian leaders on the importance of nuclear deterrence and russia's decision to suspend the plutonium disposal agreement. i also share the view that north korea should be condemned for violating a number of un security council resolutions, including the most recent resolution of 2 march 2016. but once again, the correct assessment of the facts contradicts some of the conclusions. i'm talking about diminishing the deterrent, which, given the facts, i can't agree with. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the security situation in the european union's neighbourhood has deteriorated significantly in the last few years and has become more volatile, dangerous and unpredictable, with the result that member states have to deal with a range of threats from state and non-state actors. the 1968 treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons recognises five nuclear-weapon states, while the three states that de facto possess nuclear weapons have developed nuclear capabilities outside the framework of the treaty (india, pakistan and israel). north korea is considered to be a nuclear weapons state. unfortunately, in recent years both russia and south korea have taken numerous actions that are contrary to the provisions of the npt, reinforcing the sense of threat among the international community as a whole and leading to further proliferation of nuclear weapons by state and non-state actors. the european union and its member states should now take decisive and unambiguous steps towards global arms control, with a clear recognition of a world free of nuclear weapons as a realistic long-term objective.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! this year marks the 20th anniversary of the european voluntary service. many of the people who have been involved in this project since the beginning already have children of an age that qualifies them for the initiative. it would be very interesting to see how many of these children, who have been taught by their parents' experience, have chosen to participate in european voluntary service. unfortunately, we are not able to do this because, as silvia costa points out, the european commission collects little data on this initiative. we have no information on the contribution of european volunteering to national and european gdp or to social cohesion. so we don't know what the effects of this initiative are. it certainly needs to be changed as soon as possible. consideration should also be given to extending the categories of persons eligible for european voluntary service. the increase in the average life expectancy of people in their 60s means that there is a large group of people over 60 who have the time and the desire to be socially active. it is worth taking advantage of this and creating opportunities for them to work, whether it is through european voluntary service or a completely new programme. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the project.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution on european voluntary service, which aims to help young people to participate in volunteering projects abroad lasting from 2 weeks to 12 months, i decided to abstain. european voluntary service is part of the erasmus+ programme, which has a variety of objectives, from promoting social integration, solidarity, intercultural dialogue to projects aimed at improving the competences and skills of young people. i support all the activities aimed at developing the skills of young people, but they are not very satisfactory in terms of the effects and benefits of european voluntary service. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, the european voluntary service is celebrating its 20th anniversary. over two decades, we've been able to support over 100,000 volunteers. on the one hand, it is a joy to see so many people willingly give of their time for others, without any financial gain in view. on the other hand, we can say that this is a drop in the bucket and that better promotion and material support for the programme is needed. volunteering helps to acquire skills and competences, and is an expression of solidarity and responsibility, which contribute to strengthening active citizenship and personal development. it has a huge added value and a positive impact on intercultural relations. however, volunteering requires appropriate organisational and legal structures that clearly define the rights and obligations of volunteers. in addition, member states should promote european voluntary service more actively in their education systems and, by simplifying the current application system, provide young people with quick and easy access to the programme.
in writing. ‒ professional mobility and continuous upskilling are a huge opportunity for young people and young workers. european voluntary service helps people aged 17-30 to travel abroad, enabling them to take part in volunteering projects lasting from 2 weeks to 12 months. the opportunities offered by european voluntary service are being used by people in erasmus+ programme countries as well as in neighbouring partner countries. individual projects also aim to promote social integration, solidarity and dialogue between different cultures. it is estimated that european voluntary service will support up to 100 000 volunteers between 2014 and 2020. this project deserves support, which is why i voted for it.
madam president! i must admit that i cannot give a clear assessment of the implementation of the eu youth strategy in the years 2013-2015. on the one hand, youth unemployment has declined and fewer people are leaving school early, but on the other hand, it is difficult to be satisfied with the fact that eight million young people are still out of work and a large proportion of those who are working are part-time or below their qualifications. one area where we have not been able to improve is in the digital skills of young people. i am therefore glad that the rapporteur has emphasised this in her report. last week events were held across the union to promote coding skills among young people. this is a very valuable initiative and will certainly have a significant impact in the next few years. in one respect, however, it was symptomatic. as the organizers note, the girls were only marginally involved. this shows the problem we have to face as a whole union. the situation of young people in the labour market cannot be improved if a large proportion of them are excluded from the fastest growing sector of the economy. for these reasons, i voted for the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 because i believe that youth policy should be a responsibility of the member states. the eu's role in this area should be limited to providing guidance and supporting the actions taken by the member states. the report raises concerns about the violation of the principle of subsidiarity. the rapporteur thus seeks to give the eu greater competence in this area, suggesting that intergovernmental cooperation is insufficient. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out in her report, there is a great divide between the different groups of young people in europe. the differences are national, regional and environmental. therefore, any strategy developed at eu level must be holistic and respond to all challenges. of course, the problem of unemployment remains one of the most pressing, but we are already seeing that both the general improvement in the economic situation and the initiatives implemented to promote the employment of young people are beginning to bear fruit. but the decline in unemployment is not enough. if we want to achieve the triple a social standard in the european union, as president juncker has promised, we must also ensure the quality of this employment. unfortunately, statistics confirm that young people are more likely to be in precarious employment and work below their qualifications. the european cooperation framework must take this into account. this also requires the proper use of the european social fund and other financial instruments, and their appropriate synergy.
in writing. ‒ i support the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015, in which initiatives on education and youth labour market entry play an important role. the european parliament once again stresses the importance of vocational training, the practicality and usefulness of education, and the need for the business and social partners to work together to create an education framework that will help young people in their adult lives. at the same time, the report makes no reference to the emerging trend in academia that criticises the current state of education, including the tendency to extend the learning cycle not to prepare for the more innovative and demanding challenges of the future, but to escape unemployment and lack of prospects. universities as repositories for the unemployed and the undecided are a waste of time, money and opportunity on the part of both students and faculty. education is an important factor shaping the future, but it's not going to make up for the shortcomings in other areas, and it's time for politicians to stop presenting education as the panacea for all the ills they encounter in their work. the most important things that young people need to get well into adulthood are training in creativity, critical thinking, openness and willingness to collaborate. the report also stresses the need to involve young people in decision-making and to take responsibility for their social life.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis in europe has left millions of eu citizens with financial problems, no prospects or without jobs and livelihoods. one of the groups that suffered the most were young europeans. in november 2015, the average youth unemployment rate (in the 15-29 age group) in europe was 20% and in some member states it exceeded 40%. moreover, there are 13.7 million young people in europe who are not in employment, education or training. young people are still faced with the impossibility of finding full-time or long-term employment and with the wrong qualifications that do not correspond to the demands of the labour market. despite much progress in youth employment and integration into the labour market, further action is needed to reduce unemployment, improve the quality of life and prospects of young people, ensure equal opportunities for them, raise their civic awareness and prevent radicalisation. more systematic cooperation is therefore needed at eu and member state level in a wide range of policy areas such as employment, vocational education and training, social policy, youth policy, culture, sport and health. it is also important to ensure adequate financial resources for the implementation of youth programmes.
in writing. ‒ youth policy is a matter for the member states. this is clearly stated in article 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the union has competence in this area only to support, coordinate and supplement the actions of the member states. such division of competences imposes an obligation on the union to confine itself to actions that are justified, necessary and proportionate. this is the perspective to be taken of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. i have many reservations about her. the report evaluated the strategy but did not present the level of results achieved. the rapporteur calls for the continuation of the youth employment initiative, even though it is not delivering the expected results in practice. the report also points out that existing intergovernmental cooperation in the youth field is insufficient. in view of the principle of subsidiarity, this wording is unclear as to its implications. i am also concerned by the numerous references in the report to migrants and their integration and to lgbt communities. for these reasons, i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendations proposed in the report to ensure that the eu youth strategy is as effective as possible. youth policy is of course a matter for the member states, but the european union still has an important role to play in coordinating and providing assistance and support through the so-called open method of coordination. i find particularly alarming the continued high rate of youth unemployment and the high proportion of young people not in education, employment or training. therefore, i consider that identifying the causes of youth unemployment and the measures to address them is crucial to achieving the objectives of the next edition of the eu youth strategy (2016-2018). in this context, i stress the importance of investing in education, traineeships, work placements and skills training that reflect labour market opportunities, needs and developments, and the importance of facilitating labour market entry through measures that ensure better coordination of education programmes, employment policies and labour market demand. as in other cases, i would also like to recall that in order to achieve the expected effectiveness of the strategy, it is necessary to promote and coordinate actions properly not only at eu level but also at national, regional and local level. like the rapporteur, i am particularly concerned here with the potential of new technologies to engage young people and to increase their capacity to participate in society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas. in my view, the report tackles a very important subject, namely the rural economy, with the greatest emphasis on employment in this area. i also supported the report because it aims to simplify the cap for individual farmers, to provide better access to services in rural areas and to encourage more research and innovation in the sector. that's why i voted yes.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the change from summer to winter time (2016/2951 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. so we propose that we actually change the title of this debate from "the situation in the west bank, including jewish settlements" to a more general title: challanges in the middle east peace process, because we realize and we all know as we sit in this room that the causes of conflict in the middle east in this region are much more complex than just the issue of jewish settlements. if we as a parliament want to contribute to the peace process in this region and really consider all the causes and aspects for this peace process to move forward, we should have a more general discussion and not just focus on one issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we are asking for a change of title and a broader debate so that we can all speak out about the different aspects of this tragic process, this tragic conflict and offer our contribution to solving this problem.
madam president, president draghi, commissioner, dear colleagues, i think that this report is very rich in content, contrary to what some colleagues underlined. i also think that its main message, at least from my point of view, is that we probably are at a turning point. timid recovery fails to gather momentum. it is true that the political events of the past months have not helped to foster confidence and stability. it is true that monetary policy has done a lot to preserve and enhance this fragile growth, but it seems that unconventional monetary policy is reaching its limits, and the ecb has in fact been in charge of coping with most parts of the post-crisis adjustment. as president draghi stressed earlier this year, half of the growth we have witnessed is due to the exceptional monetary policy that has been put in place. but this alone cannot solve the problem of imbalances; it cannot solve the problem of huge debt overhang. the quantitative easing seems to blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy. it might not be stimulating other adjustments – fiscal and structural – needed to resolve impediments to put the economy on a more robust growth path. we also know that even though this policy’s benefits have so far outweighed the costs, there are negative side effects to it which are well outlined in the report. whatever it takes in terms of ecb action, i hope that it does not make the leaders continue to think ‘why should we bother?’ we must continue to emphasise that the last bell is indeed ringing for fiscal policy, for public investment and for private investment to take it over. i also believe that the proposals in the context of the capital markets union look very promising as tools stimulating growth policy. the results of some studies also suggest that monetary policy might no longer be able to be the same in the future, with real interest rates lower than in the decades preceding the crisis. whatever it will be, monetary policy will remain fundamentally important for the eurozone in the future, and the ecb will continue to be on the front line. there are still many black swans out there ready to test our cohesion and resilience. therefore, let me finish by saying very strongly that we must avoid anything that could cause a loss of confidence in the monetary policy of the european central bank.
madam president! it can be welcomed that the report presents a moderately critical approach by the european parliament to the ecb's response to the report, particularly as regards the maintenance of negative interest rates. but i don't think that's enough. i cannot vote for a report which accepts and welcomes the ecb's policy of defending the euro at all costs, using such unconventional means as, among other things, an asset purchase programme. i would call it simply printing money. i am also concerned about the call for the completion of the banking union and the capital markets agreements, which, in short, are a serious threat not only to the countries in the euro area. i'm surprised he's not talking about it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. retail financial services are an important part of citizens' daily lives. we are discussing a good report that gives a broad overview of the financial services sector, while also pointing to the potential for growth in the sector and emphasising the need to create a more open, non-discriminatory and competitive market. consumers and smes will undoubtedly benefit from such improvements. i personally disagree only with paragraph 29, which refers to the adoption of the single currency by all member states without exception. ladies and gentlemen! we know very well that no regulation is indifferent to all the parties concerned. i therefore call on the european commission to carry out an appropriate assessment of the impact on the business environment before proposing further regulations in this area and others, so that they do not impose a burden on financial service providers and users alike.
mr president, firstly congratulations to mr ludvigsson and all the shadows for the work on this own-initiative report. i agree fully with those of you who spoke about the 28 different legal regimes on our single market that fragment this market and do not allow it to use the whole potential that lies there. my committee, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), also contributed to this work; we provided an opinion. we all see that the retail financial market is, despite the number of legislative measures at the eu level, still not used. we will continue our work on it. also in the report on the regulation on geoblocking, which you mentioned already, consumers encounter numerous barriers. having a bank account or a credit card is a prerequisite to almost every economic activity. but if consumers have problems with those services, they cannot as a result access any other services or goods normally accessible on this market, not to mention consumers’ problems and consequent frustration with other services such as loans, mortgages, investment products, insurance, etc. according to the most recent consumer markets scoreboard, those markets are quite poorly rated by consumers domestically, and the cross-border perspective is even worse by a long way. the single market and the digital single market cannot work effectively without cross-border retail financial services. this is one of the most important issues. therefore, i would like to repeat the conclusions from our committee and ask the commission to undertake a detailed examination analysis of both national and cross-border obstacles, remaining barriers to cross-border operations and to the completion of the single market financial sector. the european commission needs to identify the reasons behind the existing market segmentation and price discrimination and the european commission should recommend measures to encourage financial institutions to compete beyond national borders.
mr president, i would like to refer to three issues which i consider crucial when it comes to basel iii. the first one is the comparability of internal models, and this is a precondition for proper supervision. models must be comparable across the institutions supervised. so we must keep up the good work which is already done in this area – and it is not only about the work of the european banking authority (eba) but also about the functioning of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), which takes us towards a common understanding of the assessment and the approval of models. i believe that the use of internal models, in which there has been huge investment in recent years, enables information to be processed better and with a higher level of granularity than a standardised approach would permit. given that these have been introduced only relatively recently, it is no surprise that we still need to figure out how to fine tune some concepts and rules. and, in this context, transparency on the process of granting authorisation to use internal models seems a key point. the second issue is that of proportionality. i would be in favour of a wide definition of the term as a fair balance between the costs and benefits of a measure for each group of stakeholders, so that the new rules do not result in a disproportionate burden on some types of banks or some regions of the world. the last issue is that of global standards. my belief is that, if we want to avoid global fragmentation, we should adhere to these closely, in particular when we regulate an activity such as finance, which is transnational and cross-border in nature. i can understand that some would want to depart from the global standards on certain points, when they are not suited to specific situations. but the best way is to act before tensions arise, and to try to influence the standard-making process at global level, and we are well represented in basel, so we are equipped to do that if we speak with one voice.
europe needs basic solidarity today, not a european army, because that is what it is all about. president juncker said a few days ago that the idea was simply to create a european army. after all, for each of our countries to spend two percent of their national income on defense, we don't need to form a joint army. after all, in order to stop the construction of nord stream 2 as part of the sanctions policy, taking sanctions seriously, we do not need any common army. even if we are to give the baltic states greater protection in the atlantic alliance, we do not need to create a common army. you can actually create new institutions when you have solidarity. today, there is no evidence of that, and what we have in the european union is an irresponsible government that has caused the immigration crisis. you don't give new tools to people who don't know what to do with the power they have today.
in writing. – madam president, the eu security environment is deteriorating considerably, which coincides paradoxically with flagging defence investments in the union. that is why i welcome mr urmas paet’s report on the european defence union (edu), whose establishment is indeed a matter of urgency. i strongly agree with the report that the lisbon treaty provides already a solid basis for the edu. one of the remarkable examples of that is article 42(6) on permanent structured cooperation which has never been used. therefore, i am very glad that the report calls finally for the creation of a permanent council of defence ministers. in addition, it is important that the report brings to life article 41(3) on creating the military start-up fund. it does so through establishing a preparatory action for a future eu defence research programme. this can become a first crucial step in overcoming the obstacles among member states regarding the collective procurement of defence resources which should be at level of 35%, according to the european defence agency benchmark. consequently, i hope that this time member states will take their obligations seriously and a fully-fledged edu will become a reality sooner rather than later.
madam president! i would like to start by congratulating mr preda on a great report, which addresses the issue of improving the effectiveness of development cooperation in its complexity and multi-dimensionality. we are discussing this report, which the rapporteur has mentioned, exactly one week before the meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation, which is to summarise and evaluate the implementation of the principles agreed in busan. it is important to clarify the action programme with a view to implementing the sustainable development goals, which should be at the heart of the cooperation framework, as well as the addis ababa provisions on its financing. the need for concrete and measurable development policy impacts should be emphasised, because it is not just the amount of support that is important, but also how we provide it and where we allocate it. in this context, the involvement and political will of the beneficiary country authorities, as well as the involvement of local actors and civil society, is of particular importance.
madam president! we have been discussing the need to make development aid more effective for over 10 years and while the progress that has been made since then is to be welcomed, there are still many aspects that need to be worked on. two of them are particularly important from my point of view: first, i believe it is very important to increase cooperation between donors and to reduce the fragmentation of aid. according to a study by the european commission, eliminating aid fragmentation would save up to two to three billion euros per year, which could be successfully used for poverty-reduction activities. the second important issue is the intensive work to enhance stability, peace and the rule of law in the partner countries. as many studies have shown, the effectiveness of development aid is much higher in countries with a higher democracy index, and this is another reason why such action is so urgently needed.
the current eu authorities share responsibility for the escalation of the immigration crisis and the tragedies that accompany it. if the union were governed by the principles of political responsibility, the common good or, finally, democracy, this european commission would have been dismissed by this parliament long ago. article 79 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union explicitly recognises that combating illegal immigration is a task of the union, an obligation towards our countries. in the meantime, the commission is not only continuing its destructive policy, but is also creating new conflicts by putting pressure on our countries to activate the mechanism for the forced return of migrants across europe. meanwhile, the countries of central europe, including poland - my country - are not guided by any selfishness in this matter, but by a responsibility towards future generations. anyone who does not understand this is not only harming our freedom, but also the future of europe.
mr president, i welcome the annual growth survey 2017 and i fully support the three-pillar approach which puts the focus on investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal policy. however, after three years of being involved in this type of policy approach we see that growth, economic growth, has returned to europe but it is still very fragile. but i do not know whether this is a reason to blame the commission or the european union in general. i would say that there are limits to what the eu can do, given the very small size of the budget and also the fact that many of the constraints on growth which we identify right now are in areas that are under the direct control of member states. let me just mention a few of them. first of all, high debt levels both in banks and in enterprises. then, low investment in innovation, knowledge, and education. number three, this is still an insufficiently conducive environment for business activities that would make europe an attractive, the most attractive, place for investment across the whole world. so there are a number of things that have to be done by member states. i would like to call on the commissioner to increase the role of country-specific recommendations and to make sure that they are treated seriously by member states because otherwise we can, of course, exchange reproaches in this house but without actually any tangible results in terms of higher growth and more jobs.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that the economic recovery in most of the union, including in particular the southern part of the euro area, is weak and uneven, and is mainly stimulated by the ecb's monetary policy easing as well as by fiscal and external factors, but of a transitional nature, such as low oil prices. against this background, my country, poland outside the euro area is showing stable and balanced economic growth, reaching 3% of gdp this year and 3.6% of gdp in 2017, while maintaining a responsible fiscal policy, reflected in a public finance sector deficit of below 3% of gdp. tax efficiency is also improving: the four main taxes will increase from 13.5% to 15.3% of gdp, an increase of two percentage points. and the lowest unemployment rate in 27 years, which according to the gus classification does not exceed 8% in the fall of this year, and in 2017 will be below this level. it can therefore be concluded that the economies and public finances of the union countries with their own currencies are clearly in a better state than those of the euro area.
madam president, the document we are discussing today is yet another step by the european commission to effectively fight tax fraud and money laundering. as tax-related criminal practices are of a cross-border nature, they can only be tackled by joint international cooperation in tax matters. in this respect, i welcome the proposal by the commission to give national tax authorities access to anti-money-laundering (aml) information. it is only with this information, and especially the information on beneficial owners, that member states will be able to successfully address money laundering and tax evasion practices. moreover, i support the amendment of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to take the commission proposal a step further so that anti-money laundering information is automatically exchanged with other member states and with the commission. only close cooperation within the eu and on the global level can bring us further to preventing revelations such as the ones described in the panama papers from happening again. on another note, however, i want to criticise the fact that the council has once again reached a political agreement on a tax-related matter before the consultative decision is made by the european parliament. this, unfortunately, is not only against the rules but also undermines the spirit of good cooperation that the european institutions should have.
madam president! the detection and prosecution of money laundering offences is a very difficult task and requires the cooperation of many public authorities and services, as well as international cooperation in the exchange of information. the idea of harmonising at union level the access of tax authorities to information on anti-money laundering is a good one, as it allows to remove some of the obstacles that have limited the effectiveness of the tax authorities' actions so far. however, i would like to draw attention to certain proposals in the report, or in other cases the lack of proposals, which may make the work of the tax authorities of the member states more difficult than it does easier. i am thinking of the banking system, the trust funds, the business. it is a pity that this directive concerns member states and we cannot talk about a directive concerning the global situation.
in writing. ‒ given ukraine's status as a candidate country for membership of the european union, i voted in favour of an agreement between ukraine and europol on operational and strategic cooperation. effective cooperation on security matters is of particular importance in this regard. the main objective of the agreement is to increase the effectiveness of the action of the competent authorities of the states and to coordinate cooperation in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other forms of crime. these issues are becoming more important these days, which is why we need to work on strengthening the operational and strategic systems that ensure security in europe.
in writing. ‒ there are operational needs for europol to deepen operational cooperation with ukraine. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are one of the main objectives of cooperation and strategic reform in ukraine. that's why i voted to accept the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkha. the mep is being tried in a french court on charges of criminal offences. the mep has been charged with public incitement to racial or religious hatred through speech. immunity cannot be a means of avoiding responsibility, especially if the allegations relate to a period when the person was not an mep, as was the case here. the acts of which he is accused have effects in the member's country of origin. in that regard, it is not disputed that immunity limits the french court's powers of enforcement. the rapporteur recommends lifting the immunity, and i think exactly the same.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, as a decision directly contrary to the principles of freedom of expression and thought, which are also recognised as fundamental rights of the european union. the principle of national preference, that is to say, the priority given to french citizens in the social policy of the french local authorities, does not in any event constitute 'public incitement to hatred on the grounds of race or religion by word, writing, image or electronic, public means of communication'. the allegations of the maison des potes against jean-françois jalkho can be the subject of public debate and democratic decisions, not the basis for judicial repression. if they were to occur, they would constitute both a restriction of freedom and (in their consequences) of democracy, and as such they should be condemned by european opinion.
in writing. ‒ the request of the french prosecutor to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr jalkha is related to the judicial proceedings on the public incitement to racial hatred in the film "interview with jean-marie le pen" which was published on the official website of the front national and on the blog. it is clear that the alleged offence is clearly linked to the function of member of the european parliament and stems from the function of a member of the national front council. i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkha. the mep is being tried in a french court on charges of criminal offences. the mep was charged with public incitement to racial or religious hatred through speech. immunity cannot be a means of avoiding responsibility, especially if the allegations relate to a period when the person was not an mep, as was the case here. the acts charged have repercussions in the member's country of origin, and there is no doubt that immunity limits the french court's ability to enforce the law. the rapporteur recommends lifting the immunity, and i think exactly the same.
in writing. ‒ the request of the french prosecutor to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr jalkha is related to the judicial proceedings on the public incitement to racial hatred in the film "interview with jean-marie le pen" which was published on the official website of the front national and on the blog. it is clear that the alleged offence is clearly linked to the function of member of the european parliament and stems from the function of a member of the national front council. i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and cod fisheries. on the basis of the report drawn up by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) on the evaluation of the implementation and effectiveness of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008, numerous irregularities and shortcomings in this regard have been identified. the stefc report, which was drawn up three years after the adoption of the regulation, concluded that the objectives of the cod plan had not been achieved and were unlikely to be achieved by 2015. the committee, the regional advisory committees and the member states shall propose amendments to this regulation. i believe that action is needed to make the new directions of change more effective in the effort to restore cod stocks in the northern waters of the eu, but also to clarify and simplify procedures for the benefit of the industry, while taking real account of the socio-economic impact.
in writing. ‒ in july 2016, the council and parliament reached an agreement on this proposal. the rapid implementation of this regulation is intended to ensure that the amendment of the rules on the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks is carried out smoothly.
i supported this amendment to the directive because i believe that the eu has an extremely important role to play in the fight against organised crime which knows no borders. in this case, it is the fight against tax evasion and money laundering, and the role of the individual national states can never be sufficient. i think that coordination at central european level, clear rules on access to information on tax returns of individual entities by financial and police authorities, makes sense. the fact that we have strengthened the access of financial authorities to tax information in individual member states today will lead to a more effective fight against this form of organised crime in the future. so the proposal is right, and while i'm not in favor of strengthening the eu and transferring more powers to brussels, this story is about something else, it's about fighting organized crime.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report for two main reasons. first of all, money laundering is a vague and propaganda-based term. money that is dirty in one country is not dirty in another country. there is no objective measure of which country has the correct interpretation, and it's very similar with tax laws. it is therefore natural that citizens and entrepreneurs alike move their businesses to places where taxes are lower, because businesses are run to generate income and tax is a cost to entrepreneurs. so countries are competing with each other on taxation, and they should be competing to see which tax system is more efficient for the economy. this should not be unified, but entrepreneurs should be allowed to transfer their activities from disadvantaged to advantageous systems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the access of tax authorities to information on anti-money laundering. the regulation aims to ensure that tax authorities have consistent access to information on anti-money laundering. currently, access to such information varies across the eu. the amendments would therefore provide tax authorities with access to customer information as part of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. the grounds for abstaining shall be the observations appearing in the arrangements with the council of the european union.
in writing. the leaked panama papers, which leaked from mosack fonseca's panama office, revealed how lawyers employed by the firm helped their international clients launder money and evade taxes. as a result of this and other tax affairs, the european commission has embarked on an ambitious programme to combat tax evasion. the european parliament adopted new legislation at its november plenary session to combat such practices more effectively. the new rules will give tax authorities the ability to access information on companies and impose data exchange obligations on them. combating tax evasion is a key objective in achieving a more efficient and fairer tax system in the eu. in this context, it is necessary to increase tax transparency and strengthen cooperation between tax authorities in the eu. access to information for tax authorities on anti-money laundering matters varies considerably between member states. even when such access is provided, authorities often face numerous obstacles that limit the effectiveness of their actions. the new rules are of particular importance in the context of better detection of money laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ the council regulation aims to provide tax authorities with consistent access to anti-money laundering information to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities in monitoring the proper application of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions, e.g. trusts. currently, access to anti-money laundering information varies across the eu. the amendment would therefore provide tax authorities with access to the mechanisms, procedures, documents and information concerning beneficial ownership and their underlying customer due diligence procedures as part of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. i have no objection to the commission's amendments to the directive on administrative cooperation. however, parliament's consultations included elements of automatic exchange of information on anti-money laundering, which was not the aim of the commission's original proposal or the council's compromise and was not taken into account. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ recent media reports on the so-called 'panama papers' have drawn attention to the very serious problem of money laundering and tax havens. this and other similar scandals have made the european union and its member states aware of the need to cooperate more closely in the fight against tax fraud. the amendments to directive 2011/16/eu regarding access to information by tax authorities in relation to the prevention of money laundering can allow the european union to make significant progress in the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. member states cannot turn a blind eye to tax fraud, thereby allowing vast sums of money to flow unchecked. therefore, tax authorities need to have access to information on the extent of illicit money flows. the exchange of information between union and national authorities is essential to achieve this objective. at the same time, the right to privacy of union citizens must be safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i am not convinced that the proposed rules will help to guarantee a uniform anti-money laundering approach in each member state, given the diversity of economies and the procedures used. parliament's consultations included elements which were not the aim of the commission's original proposal or of the compromise prepared by the council. that's why i voted against the bill.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report because there are a number of issues in the report which need to be discussed and clarified. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european credit rating agency is a good example of the need to ensure that the european credit rating agency is able to compete with the national credit rating agencies. what i welcome about the report is that it is a balanced and reasonable approach to the ecb's policy. i think the report contains too many doubts and inaccuracies.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the ecb's policy in a reasonable way. however, given the report's promotion of a highly expansionary ecb policy (asset purchase programme, targeted longer-term refinancing operations), my serious doubts about the positive effects of mario draghi's statement and the more critical approach to the issue of further enlargement of the banking union than expressed in the report, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank plays a very important role in the eu, which is becoming even more important in times of crisis. europe is currently facing a number of challenges, including high unemployment in the euro area, market imbalances, the impact of the russian embargo, low economic growth, low levels of investment, insufficient domestic demand and fragmentation of the financial market. the ecb can help to combat these adverse effects by introducing financial instruments and targeted products. in addition, every effort should be made to ensure the proper functioning of the single monetary and fiscal policy and to ensure stable conditions favourable to investment. it is also very important to monitor and control the effectiveness of the actions undertaken in order to better select solutions and to carry out reliable evaluations of the use of funds. moreover, when taking decisions with pan-european financial implications, it is also necessary to take into account their potential impact on retail clients and the stability of pension systems. the ecb also has to deal with the impact of its current interest rate policy on local and regional banks and savings banks, and the issue of risks in the insurance and pension sectors. for this reason too, detailed monitoring and forecasting and impact assessment are essential.
in writing. ‒ effective development pathways and concrete actions are needed to unlock the full potential of the single market and facilitate innovation for the benefit of end-users. the green paper, while respecting the principle of proportionality, focuses mainly on financial services for citizens in need of cross-border services. the main objective is to ensure that the retail financial services market functions for the benefit of all. action to remove barriers and restrictions should be ensured. i also believe that cooperation between member states within the eu is an important issue, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity, in supporting retail financial services firms that want to make better use of cross-border business opportunities. i therefore voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services, as i share the rapporteur's view that the eu retail financial services market is still relatively underdeveloped.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on a wide range of issues related to financial services in general and, more specifically, on the opportunities for streamlining the sector to the benefit of consumers and smes by ensuring a healthy competitive environment. the main points were the need to improve information on key financial products, the positive effects of digitalisation, the need to simplify rules while avoiding duplication of effort, the importance of financial education, the need to improve competition and the need to further support the financial dispute resolution network. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu retail financial services market remains underdeveloped and highly fragmented. we still have 28 different, not very competitive, domestic markets. effective action is therefore needed to unlock the full potential of the european single market and to facilitate innovation for the benefit of end-users. the european commission's green paper is a step in the right direction. action needs to be taken as soon as possible to remove the existing barriers that limit the innovation of businesses and the functioning of the european economy as a whole. this is particularly important in the context of the rapidly expanding digitalisation of the world. there is now a real opportunity to connect financial operators operating in different parts of europe with consumers across the whole of europe. further development of the retail financial services market at union level within an appropriate legal framework ensuring the necessary consumer protection would not only facilitate intensive and fruitful cross-border activities but could also create a wider field for healthy competition at national level. i hope that the commission will take legislative action on retail financial services in the near future.
in writing. ‒ this report is a response to the european commission's green paper on retail financial services and aims to initiate a debate on the possible opening of the european market for financial services, in particular retail services, i.e. savings accounts, mortgages, pension insurance, etc. currently, the national financial services markets in the eu remain highly fragmented, for a variety of reasons. the report aims primarily to analyse the possibilities for the creation of a european financial services market. i voted to pass this document.
a year and a half ago, the european council took a very important decision on our common defence - a concrete decision to destroy the infrastructure of illegal immigration trafficking before it is used. in the last year and a half, not a single boat has been destroyed. instead, we hear, basically, all the time, the call for illegal immigration, because that's the only way to interpret the promise of opening legal pathways for immigration, which is illegal today. you can always argue about the right to bear arms, about the creation of new institutions of arms, about boundaries, when it's needed and when it's not. but one thing is certain: you can't give guns to people who, even if they're unarmed, are a danger to the community.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the initiative to create a european defence union because i am convinced that defence policy must remain in the hands of sovereign states. the growing security threat facing europe has motivated some to raise the issue of building stronger cooperation between states in the field of security. some even argue that this cooperation should take the form of a formal defence union. taking matters to formal action in this area is a violation of the basic principle of a democratic and sovereign state. the security issue requires cooperation, which is why i believe that we should coordinate our actions within nato. the proposal to create an eu army will weaken nato and have a negative impact on relations with international defence partners.
in writing. ‒ the european defence union is an innovative solution to the important and growing problem of the european union's defence capability. this is a first practical but important step in increasingly complex circumstances and in the face of increasingly dangerous signals and behaviour emanating from eastern europe. in addition, the behavior of the new washington administration is not clear. the proposal that each country should meet its obligation to spend 2% of gdp on defence should be highlighted. poland shall comply with this commitment. the additional resources for the creation of a european defence union should be provided for in the new multiannual financial framework, but not only in terms of cohesion policy. the budgetary effort of each country should be taken into account. the development of the csdp must be supported and further steps encouraged to enhance the eu's defence capabilities in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the growing and unprecedented security threats facing europe have led to increasing calls in some quarters for closer defence cooperation between eu member states, and some to suggest that this should take the form of a formal defence union. i believe that defence cooperation and defence capability development cooperation in the eu should remain voluntary and not lead to duplication of nato defence planning. this is particularly the case for defence planning, the sustainable development of defence industrial cooperation and defence capacity building in all member states. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in europe, its immediate neighbourhood and rapidly progressing globalisation require a change of approach in many areas, including external and internal security. this applies both to the common foreign and security policy and to the protection of the external borders. the proper functioning of the eu internal market and the responsible conduct of the member states obliged to implement the common rules are of great importance for the proper functioning and achievement of the tasks of the csdp. it should be stressed that the defence market in europe is very heterogeneous and fragmented, and most contracts are still awarded at national level. in this context, small and medium-sized enterprises have much to gain and could benefit from a more transparent and open market, allowing them to participate in clearly defined tenders also in member states other than those in which they are established. better cooperation in the fight against terrorism and information sharing are also important. given the differences in defence capabilities, eu countries should all the more seek to work towards agreeing a common approach in the context of hybrid threats, trafficking in human beings, intelligence, cybersecurity and customs controls. security is not only a condition for the inviolability of borders, but also for the proper functioning of an integrated europe.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the level of security in the european union's neighbourhood has deteriorated significantly. in the face of so many threats, no nation or organization can safeguard its citizens on its own. it is therefore high time that the community started to build its own defence system. the outcome of the us presidential elections and the call for greater involvement of the other member states in nato have made the need to build european defence capability even more urgent. building a defence union requires better coordination of national military capabilities, increased defence spending or the commitment of the eu budget to joint armed forces or defence research and development. the report rightly noted that the next post-2020 financial framework should provide financial support for the establishment of a european defence union. closer european cooperation in defence would contribute to enhancing the efficiency, unity and effectiveness, as well as the eu's assets and capabilities, and would have a potential positive impact on defence research and the union industry. the establishment of permanent structured cooperation within the union would undoubtedly give an impetus to the search for new possibilities for joint procurement, maintenance and maintenance of armed forces between member states.
in writing. ‒ the idea of creating a european defence union should be discussed and reflected upon. i have repeatedly argued that the european defence union should be rid of prejudices, but it should address a number of key issues, such as strengthening the industrial base, improving the mobility system for military personnel, equipment, etc. it is good that these issues are addressed in the text of the resolution. unfortunately, on the other hand, the proposal may contain unnecessary postulates which would lead to the eec indirectly taking over nato's competences. the european defence union should be built on the military or intelligence bases of the member states, so that the sovereignty of the member states is guaranteed. that's why i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the face of today's challenges, it is not enough to simply say that europe should do better in defence and security cooperation europe must do it! the geopolitical situation forces the european union countries to bear the burden of responsibility for their own security, rather than relying solely on the assistance of allied powers. we have to become it ourselves. we're the economic leader, but we need military power to follow suit. the report by mr paet contains many good ideas on how to deepen defence cooperation in europe within the european union. the lisbon treaty provides a number of solutions in this area, such as the possibility of joint armaments planning or permanent structured cooperation (pesco). the report also calls for better use of existing structures such as the eu battle groups and the european defence agency. these are initiatives worth supporting. the eu must not be afraid to take responsibility for security and defence capabilities. the low level and unsatisfactory performance of defence spending in europe indicate the need for change and a more collective approach to these important issues. opinion polls show clearly that citizens want closer cooperation on defence and security in europe. this report is a signal that we want to go in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the european defence union. this is because the european union needs to respond more decisively to emerging threats, such as terrorism, cyberattacks and energy security. this would require not only better coordination but also the establishment of a joint operational command to make more efficient use of the military resources held by individual member states. the eu budget allocation for defence research is also desirable. unfortunately, this is not possible under the current legal model. this is one of the reasons why europe's military technology is increasingly outpacing countries like the united states and russia, which are spending billions of dollars to gain technological advantage. the proposed changes are in the right direction and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on a report on the question of unlocking the potential of passenger water transport. i think it is important to improve the common rules on the safety of passenger ships in eu waters. in the context of the current situation of uncontrolled flows of illegal migrants by sea to europe, there is a need to improve the safety of ship crews and passengers. i also see the need to further improve systems in the operation of large agglomerations to improve the quality of services and the comfort of people travelling by public transport. however, the proposed rules encroach on competences which should be the responsibility of the member states, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support proposals to simplify and streamline the common rules on passenger ship safety in eu waters to improve safety and competitiveness, and to clarify, simplify and update the rules to take account of legal and technical developments. however, in view of the call for decarbonisation and the promotion of non-fossil fuels, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ despite the negative effects of the financial crisis, the ferry and liner industry has consolidated and increased significantly in recent years. the sector currently employs some 160 000 people and offers important connections in coastal, inland and urban areas and is particularly important for peripheral regions. at the same time, water transport is widely recognised as one of the most sustainable modes of passenger transport. attention should be paid to the potential efficiency gains from the strengthening of passenger water transport and the possibility of introducing integrated ticketing to increase coordination between different modes of transport. our aim should be to create a single area for passenger water transport, which would make it possible to reduce the administrative burden on cross-border passenger transport.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution is positive and important, but several important issues have been omitted, including the need to simplify current regulations and to put the emphasis on the safety of inland vessel crew and passengers, which is particularly important in the context of the immigration crisis. the inclusion of passenger water transport in the framework of systems that take into account the use of two or more modes of transport could be a major opportunity, which may be particularly important in large agglomerations. the absence of these demands has decided that i shall abstain from voting on the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ water transport is not only cheap and fast, but also an environmentally friendly means of transport. its importance for the creation of a single european transport network is of the utmost importance. unfortunately, in many member states there are significant disparities in the level of infrastructure development, the number of connections available and the diversity of the offer. in poland, inland transport has been neglected for many years, also in terms of passenger transport, despite its great potential in our geographical conditions. this is not just about transport, but also about the opportunity to create many jobs in the shipyards and in the modernisation of the infrastructure. the importance of this means of transport for the development of tourism is also not overestimated, as in many regions of poland the use of passenger water transport is already being taken into account. for the kujawy-pomorskie region, this is a key issue and an opportunity for development by creating new communication opportunities for investors. the strategic location of my region makes it an important water transport hub not only for poland but for the whole of central and eastern europe. however, a huge financial effort is needed to thoroughly modernise existing infrastructure. such an effort is impossible without the support of the european union. the report we are voting on today is an important step towards restoring the rightful place of passenger water transport on the road map of poland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. the aim of improving development aid to member states is of paramount importance. i believe that action should be taken to improve the quality of the delivery of development aid, which tackles the problems of countries linked to poverty and existing inequalities. in the context of the implementation of the development strategy, cooperation between the private and public sectors is important, contributing to sustainable and inclusive development. the implementation of the strategy beyond the objectives should also take into account the fact that development challenges have changed with the emergence of new global challenges such as migration, food security, peace and stabilisation and climate change. i believe that action for the development of the member states is a priority for the eu and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. five years after the adoption of the partnership with pusan, it is time to take stock of the implementation of the commitments made at that time on effective development cooperation. the anniversary also provided an opportunity to explore and identify ways of making aid and development more effective in order to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the addis ababa action plan on financing for development. in the context of the new 2030 agenda, and in view of the need to achieve better support outcomes with lower financial burdens, the development of more effective aid and development cooperation approaches remains essential to help reduce poverty, increase national resilience and empower local communities. in my view, it is important to continuously develop new and effective support methods, also with the involvement of the private sector, for example through a public-private partnership.
in writing. ‒ i support the long-term commitment of 0.33% of gnp for the new member states and 0.7% for the 'old' union countries to development aid. my country has spent about 0.09% of its gnp on development aid each year for the last seven years, or a quarter of the declared amount. it's because of a lack of funding, but of course we're doing our best to achieve that goal. however, we are not currently able to meet the commitment, although we fully support it. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been committed to improving aid and development effectiveness for many years. this december marks the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the partnership for effective cooperation with pusan. after five years, it is therefore important to take stock of the implementation of the global commitments. it is also a good opportunity to explore how increasing aid and development effectiveness could contribute to the un sustainable development goals and the addis ababa action plan on aid financing. as the world's largest donor, the union has a particular responsibility to improve development efficiency and accountability worldwide. at the same time, we must promote integrated governance based on the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries. we should seek to develop new initiatives to develop trilateral cooperation projects involving new donors and middle-income countries. the union, as well as its member states, must be more proactive and systematic in involving national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and private actors in programming.
in writing. ‒ the main thrust of the draft report should be supported, as it is important, both at eu and global level, to help more effectively by committing financial resources, to improve the quality of our development aid. the private sector is an interesting option through blended instruments and public-private partnerships. all the compromises negotiated are noteworthy, except for compromise 2, which concerns the weakening of the oda criteria. overall, i voted to pass the resolution.
madam president, i can still see chechnya and grozny: total destruction and atrocities committed for the sake of maintaining geopolitical influence with total impunity for the perpetrators. the same is happening to aleppo for the sake of maintaining, or regaining, influence by vladimir putin, bashar al—assad or the iranian regime. there are crimes against humanity being committed there. do we learn the lesson of history?
in writing. the news that has been coming in from syria since the conflict began is terrifying and tragic. human rights are being violated, civilians are being killed every day, hospitals are being bombed. the fanatical terrorists have no brakes and no scruples, and the syrian people live in fear and fear of surviving the next day. although the european union is providing all the necessary humanitarian aid to the syrians, it is still not enough. it should also be noted that russia and turkey support the regime of bashar al-assad. weapons are being delivered to syria, and it is obvious that these countries are involved. the european union cannot accept the support of terrorism, our decisions should be more stringent than, for example, imposing sanctions. there needs to be a conversation about the future of policy towards al-assad's allies. the union cannot be passive on this issue and its representatives should not be using empty words. what syria needs now is swift and decisive action to end the conflict.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. we're dealing with the most radical voice in this debate. while we all agree that turkey has no prospect of accession, i would like to ask: in the name of what values would we tear up the agreement on refugees and immigrants that has worked and is working well? what value is this?
madam president! we all know very well from history that when the state of israel was given a choice between peace and the existence of settlements, it chose peace. it was like that in sinai after the peace with egypt, it was like that in gaza. at the same time, we all know very well that every time the palestinian movement has relied on terror as a tool for effective pressure, terror has increased. and we also know that every time the palestinian movement has counted on international pressure, it has refrained from peace talks. if we really want peace in the holy land, if we really want the prospect of a two-state solution to remain a reality, we should refrain from any involvement in this conflict in order to support the palestinian side which refuses to recognize the state of israel. this is the only way to peace.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about defence and security, whereas the european community started with six countries and has now added twenty-two, and no one is shouting about aggression. in the meantime, five states have expressed their desire to join the russian federation: transnistria, south ossetia, the republic of lugansk, the republic of donetsk and crimea. russia has only accepted one of these five countries. if we're talking about a threat, we just have to look at whether russia is surrounded by nato bases, or whether europe is surrounded by russian bases. of course, russia is afraid of nato, not the european union, because who is afraid of the european union? if we are talking about separation by force, i would like to remind you that american planes bombed civilian cities in europe, separating kosovo for the first time. and this is the first time that the territory of another state has been forcibly seized, not crimea. also the secession of montenegro a very nice state anyway, which was given much more help than the little green men gave in crimea. if we talk about the threat, countries that are much closer to russia than brussels, namely bulgaria, moldova, estonia, have recently elected governments that are quite pro-russian. i suspect mrs. lösing is right that this is about arms bribes and this whole thing is just to be able to give arms bribes. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i represent one of the four countries mentioned by my predecessor which are fully complying with their obligations to the common security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, the participation of the vast majority of our countries in the atlantic alliance, the concern for the relevance of the european dimension of nato, and, of course, the specific political decisions and diplomatic initiatives that implement this shared responsibility. but what is different is everything that is aimed at building a european army. president mogherini has of course said that this is unrealistic, that it will not happen, but we all know that this is an old dream, as romano prodi said quite recently. articles 12 to 14 of this report are not really reassuring, although there are many, many good observations. article 38, what follows also. let us remember one thing: europe is made up of the nations of europe. when these countries switch spectra, europe will really cease to exist.
mr president, mr rapporteur, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you for your report and to say that what unites the european union is increasingly a scarce commodity. at the same time, about 80% of europeans consider security to be an important issue, and this can bring us together, be the engine of integration going beyond the economic aspect. the security and defence challenges need to be seen in a broad way, and the key element is of course the harmonisation and adjustment of the different policies, including economic policies, because defence capabilities are a function of economic development: the better the economy, the better the defence capabilities. this is the industrial policy of the union, the reindustrialisation policy, but also innovation and research, all of which we have included in the 'horizon 2020' programme, as well as energy independence and cybersecurity. i would also like to draw attention to the military aspect, the protection of borders, and at the same time the relations between the union and nato, which were also confirmed by the warsaw declaration of the summer of 2016. it's also the element that should be highlighted here. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's external relations policy to include the european union's external relations, security and defence policy, and the european union's external relations policy.
i wanted to point out that during this session we have some very good papers, important debates, important discussions about security. yesterday mr urmas paet, today mr paşcu, and in a moment - also crucial from the point of view of security - the report by mrs anna fotyga. one common denominator covers all the debates so they are critical, they are critical of the state of affairs, but that is the only good news, because all the recommendations in this room, however, differed between the various political groups. diagnosis of the left, right and middle portions of the room is identical, consistent. but the chances of getting out, of making europe safer, are not very high in these documents, because the room is different in terms of forecasts, of willingness to spend on defence. and that's what worries me, and i wanted to bring that to your attention.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe is in an exceptional situation in terms of the number of conflicts and potential flashpoints on our borders, which the rapporteur has identified well. it is clear that to deal effectively with current and future threats, both external and internal, it is necessary to strengthen the defence capabilities of the individual member states. increased cooperation at eu level can also be beneficial, provided that it is done in a complementary way to nato, which is and will remain the fundamental pillar of european security. in this context, the need for greater eu strategic autonomy, as advocated in the report, is particularly surprising - it is hard to imagine that this could be done without harming nato. the most important task facing the countries that are both members of the eu and the north atlantic alliance is to fully implement the warsaw summit and meet the 2% of gdp requirement for defence spending. the union must focus on implementing the warsaw declaration on eu-nato cooperation. this declaration should be the cornerstone of all activities related to the implementation of the european global strategy in the field of defence. finally, we must not forget what is happening in the east and the material support for the ukrainian army, which is actively resisting russia's hybrid war.
in writing. i agree with the need for an effective security and defence policy. until now, the eu has been mainly about economic affairs, opening up the single market to the movement of goods and people. now, just as important is ensuring security, especially the fight against terrorism and curbing illegal immigration. the high priority given to security and defence among the union's priorities also requires member states to increase their defence spending. over the past 30 years, military spending in europe has been reduced and today it averages 1.4 percent of gdp. this long-standing underinvestment has severely reduced the defence capabilities of individual countries and the union as a whole. therefore, not only nato, but also the eu should press for countries to increase their defence spending to 2% of gdp. only these additional resources would create opportunities for technical modernisation of the military, improved interoperability and new capabilities, for example for combat in cyberspace. the european parliament should be more concerned about the real situation of defence capabilities of individual eu countries in the light of the deteriorating security situation around europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is my pleasure and privilege to present the report on the eu’s strategic communication to counteract the propaganda against it by third parties. i consider it a matter of the utmost importance that parliament expresses its stance on an issue so pertinent and timely. allow me first to strike a very personal note, because this issue is also important for me personally. my whole public life – a large part of it under communist rule and afterwards – has been dedicated to countering the narrative exerted first by the soviet union and then by the russian federation of its special traditional sphere of influence. i always considered it very dangerous for our joint sovereignty because this same issue refers to many nations of central and eastern europe, so i am very privileged to present it here today before parliament. i also have very personal experience in observing, with my own eyes, the rise of radical islamism throughout the years. it was very important for me to monitor the elections in lebanon in 2005 after the assassination of rafic hariri and to see the influence of stratcom at that time. we have, of course, now seen many transformations of the strategic communications and propaganda in these countries. the assignment from the enlarged bureau of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) was very clear. i was given the task of describing the hostile propaganda from both state and non-state actors. it was decided that i present in my report, together with my co—workers and experts and after consideration and joint elaboration with excellent shadow rapporteurs from the political groups, the view of two directions from which we are facing hostile propaganda. in terms of the russian federation, the situation is somewhat clearer now, because, after the the annexation of crimea and the aggression by the russian federation in the eastern part of ukraine, many countries in the western world – western democracies – are fully aware of the proceedings of disinformation, manipulation and propaganda.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. disinformation and propaganda are as old as conflicts and wars. but hybrid wars and conflicts, and what's happening with terrorism, have only shown the destructiveness of misinformation. unfortunately, europe is weaker in this respect. europe cannot respond to disinformation with disinformation, it must respond with information, it must respond by promoting and propagating those values and those information which are important to us. on behalf of the committee on culture, we tabled a number of amendments which have been adopted, and i would like to thank you for them. these were mainly about strengthening independent media outside europe, taking action that is definitely long-term rather than short-term, appreciating the importance of information and promoting it, and all that is connected with social media. this is an important report by mrs fotyga, a report which has received a positive response and for which we should thank her.
rapporteur. – madam president, in the course of its preparation this report was also the target of hostile propaganda. i would like to thank madam mogherini and the whole team of east stratcom for their work in this respect, as well as the european endowment for democracy and the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs for their contributions. last, but absolutely not least, i wish to thank my personal co-workers and excellent shadow rapporteurs for their contributions and ability to strike a consensus, making a very valuable contribution to this report.
the commission states that around 70 million europeans yes, 70 million europeans have insufficient literacy and numeracy skills, and 40% of the union's population does not have sufficient digital skills. this is a staggering figure. if we applied more rigorous criteria, like functional illiteracy, the results would be even more frightening. even university students have difficulty understanding more complex newspaper texts, let alone classical literary or philosophical texts. but i doubt whether another eu programme, another guarantee, another framework, even with an additional budget, will be able to remedy this situation. is it not that we need to rethink our current educational strategies, that we need to return to the old, proven methods of literacy in society and educational methods, to rebuild the culture of the book, which is indispensable even in the digital age?
in writing. a major barrier to growth in many member states is the fact that a large proportion of the population does not have the necessary skills for the labour market. the problem is not just early school leavers but the increasing prevalence of secondary illiteracy. many experts point to the disturbing loss of the ability to read with understanding, to write more elaborate sentences, or to perform simple mathematical calculations. i therefore wholeheartedly support the european commission's initiative to establish a skills guarantee. experts agree that the traditional model of education, as we know it from our own experience or that of our children, is not fully responsive to the challenges of the 21st century. no country has yet created a perfect education system from which all can benefit. to make full use of existing policies, instruments and funds, we should learn from each other and build on ideas that have worked very well in many member states. when creating the skills guarantee, does the european commission intend to focus on sharing good practice and encouraging countries to implement ideas that have already been proven to work?
in writing. the two main challenges facing the skills guarantee are to fill the skills gaps among eu citizens and to better match them to the labour market. in this context, i stress the enormous role of modern education systems, which should focus on the development of core competences and a broader range of skills needed in the labour market now and in the future, including digital, transversal, technical and social skills. i also ask the commission to support member states in modernising their education programmes so that they can more effectively identify, activate and develop the skills and qualifications of europeans. finally, i would stress that skills can translate into better economic and social outcomes if they are clear to all and effectively used across the union. in this context, we must ensure their quality, transparency and recognition in other member states. i also stress the importance of recognising and validating competences and qualifications acquired through non-formal education, which is particularly important for those with lower qualifications, the unemployed, those at risk of unemployment and those who need to change their career path.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. clean air, eco-innovation, the protection of natural capital and new green technologies are our goals, but extending restrictions to non-toxic gases and limiting methane emissions, for example, can disrupt the agricultural sector. restrictions in this sector should only concern highly toxic hydrogen sulphide and ammonia, and in built-up areas. toxins emitted into the atmosphere are local, and averaging them by including overseas territories, the so-called flexibility in the calculation, is a clear fraud. it is important to update the limits for nitrogen oxides emitted by diesel engines. unfortunately, this project does not take into account particulate emissions of much less than two and a half micrometres, does not take into account dioxin and unfortunately completely ignores the particularly dangerous low level emissions that occur during the heating season.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, the rapporteur, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee, the committee. clean air is a goal we should all strive for, but overly ambitious targets will increase low emissions, among other things, and also hit agriculture very hard. the agreement between the institutions on the reduction of certain pollutants is critical for three reasons. firstly, ladies and gentlemen, for methodological reasons. the whole negotiation was based on a dubious methodology that calculated the reduction of pollution as a percentage of the improvement in health, as if the improvement in health depended on that one source alone. secondly, i am also critical of them for procedural reasons, because parliament has made it a point of honour to achieve a certain level of health protection. in order to satisfy parliament, the dutch presidency imposed on the three countries - poland, romania and hungary - commitments which they were unable to fulfil. and the third reason is decency. the european commission has made it clear that the cost of reduction in the netherlands is several times lower than, for example, in poland. so how does this relate to decency? if the dutch presidency wanted to please parliament, it could have done so by its own example. it would be cheaper and more decent.
mr. chairman, please! clean air is the right goal, we all agree. we should strive to reduce the emission of toxic gases into the atmosphere, but the high standards and the length of the period of adaptation to the directive must not hamper the development of agriculture and the national economies of the member states of the european union. we all know that the profitability of agriculture has been very low for many years, and many sectors are actually in deficit. standards must not jeopardise the profitability of production and force a significant reduction in production. i feel it's important to set the right standards. we know that each of the countries of the european union is at a different stage of development and faces different problems in this area. therefore, the aim is right, but the execution itself is not necessarily right.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for once again leading the negotiations for the eu successfully. marrakech was not about ground-breaking issues. it was about how to turn the paris commitments into reality: that was the main topic. we have a clear message to our partners, especially the major economies: the paris agreement is our joint achievement and our joint responsibility. we have to deliver it together. my question, commissioner, is this: how did they really answer, and what did you feel? not only the regional proposals are important but also your general feeling. the second issue is that of our ‘homework’ – the internal responsibility of the european union with regard to the ets, proper reform of the ets system to prevent carbon leakage and stimulate modernisation in a gradual and technological neutral way. we simply have to do this homework: otherwise, firstly, we neglect our share of global responsibility; secondly, we increase global emissions; and, thirdly, we endanger our competitiveness. all three of these are unacceptable. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. that is the question i would also like to put to the commissioner and the commission. and the first thing that i think we should do is make sure that we're not the only major economy in the world that's really fighting climate change. we're pretty much alone right now, and we're not going to help the climate fight if we keep doing this. our international situation and impact is the most important thing right now, and if we cause a leak today because of bad decisions on the ets - a leak, that is, a job leak from the european union - then de facto global emissions will increase, not decrease, because emissions outside the eu are higher. so be careful with the ets reform, because we're going to destroy our own economy, because it's more dangerous for climate change than any of the strict ets rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the calendar of the 2018 monthly sessions of parliament, due to a different position on the question of the change in the duration of the sessions. the calendar presented suggests extending the duration of the plenary sessions in strasbourg. i do not see the need to change this in the light of the current working system of parliament and the organisation of working time. i believe that these changes will not increase efficiency, but may only delay the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution to refer the ceta agreement to the court of justice of the eu for review of its compatibility with the eu treaties. the opinion presented is too liberal in its interpretation of the provisions of the contract. legal experts who have worked on the interpretation of the provisions believe that ceta does not affect the legal framework, the eu's competences or the fundamental rights of the treaty. the european parliament's legal teams that examined the compatibility issue did not find any contradiction between the investment chapter of ceta and the eu treaties. in the light of the foregoing, i do not consider that there is a need to re-examine the case.
in writing. ‒ i see the transatlantic economic and trade agreement with canada (ceta) as an additional component of the security architecture and the deepening of transatlantic relations, as evidenced by the strategic partnership agreement signed in parallel. the arbitration mechanism, which is most often raised as an obstacle, will be subject to separate ratification in the polish sejm. the agreement respects the existing restrictions in polish and eu law on agricultural trade, such as the non-release of gmos. it also eliminates customs duties and other non-tariff barriers, thus increasing the competitiveness of polish goods. i share the view of my colleagues in the ecr who oppose further attempts to delay the vote on ceta, especially after the unanimous agreement of the 28 member states. the position of the polish government on this matter is also unequivocal.
in writing. ‒ the rationale for the ceta vote: after the us presidential elections, the ttip issue is temporarily out of date. but ceta is a breakthrough that will push the weaker european economies into an unequal competition, which for example for agriculture - i note this as a pole, representing the most agricultural country in europe - will be deadly. we have a duty to defend our agriculture, which is a great social asset for poland and for europe. ceta is also a limitation of the sovereign rights of our countries vis-à-vis our national markets, which are threatened by the consolidation and expansion of the international arbitration mechanism. this is a privileging of non-european companies and as such should have been examined by the court of justice of the eu, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ left-wing, populist and green parties have made another attempt to delay the entry into force of ceta, the most ambitious free trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union. the resolution proposed by some political groups in the european parliament, requesting an opinion from the court of justice of the eu on the compatibility of ceta with the eu treaties, is in fact another move against international trade, transnational cooperation and the globalisation of prosperity. ceta is the most comprehensive and advanced agreement of its kind ever negotiated by the european union. thanks to the agreement, 98% of all tariff lines will be eliminated. it will also allow almost unlimited access to canadian public procurement at all levels. most importantly, in response to the voices of europeans, a new mechanism for investment protection has been introduced, which ensures that the government has the absolute right to legislate in the name of the public interest. the draft resolution should therefore be regarded as nothing more than a political manifesto and an attempt to undertake diversionary action against international trade. it should be noted that this summer the legal services of the european parliament issued an opinion on the compatibility of ceta with the treaties, indicating that it is fully compatible with eu law and does not affect our legal framework, eu competences or constitutional rights. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the inta committee has already asked the european parliament's legal service for an opinion on this issue. the opinion explicitly states that the provisions are compatible with the eu treaties, because: 'given the purpose and content of the investment part of ceta, the planned investment dispute settlement provisions can be considered compatible with the eu treaties'. it is worth adding that the legal services opinion was considered sufficient and opposes further attempts to delay the vote on ceta, especially after the unanimous agreement of the 28 member states. that is why i voted against the opinion, which is designed to delay the decision.
in writing. ‒ the signing by the european union of a comprehensive free trade agreement with canada is a subject of much controversy and concern. the initiators of the action to refer ceta to the court of justice were not, however, concerned with clarifying the objections that were emerging. the proposal which was the subject of this vote was an attempt to exploit public doubts to delay the ratification process of this agreement. this kind of trick should not be used in such a serious debate, which is why i voted against this motion. the legal aspects of this agreement, which may give rise to reservations, have been discussed on many occasions in the european parliament and in the committee on international trade, and many experts believe that it is in line with european law. this does not mean, however, that i am uncritical of this agreement, and particularly of the way in which it was negotiated. the lack of transparency in the negotiation process is a huge failure on the part of the commission, which has resulted in the emergence of sometimes very radical voices of opposition to ceta. however, the ratification process of the agreement has just begun and the member states will have the final say. it is the citizens who, by their ability to influence national authorities, should have the final say on this matter. blaming lawyers is not the right answer to the eu's democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on emissions of certain air pollutants. the concerns stem from the fact that the initiative, in its wording, by assuming emission limits, may have negative effects on the polish agricultural, steel, construction and, in particular, thermal energy sectors. the introduction of the amendments will consequently entail high financial costs for the reduction of emissions of sulphur dioxide and ammonia compounds, which are listed in the directives. in order to avoid negative consequences for the country and to protect the polish economy, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to revise the national emission ceilings directive (necd) is part of the commission's clean air package and replaces the current regulations laid down in directive 2001/81/ec for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane organic compounds (nmvocs) and ammonia (nh3), which are in force until 2020. the new directive was to set new emission reduction levels from 2020 to 2030 for these substances, as well as for dust (pm2.5) and methane (ch4). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of pesticides is not significantly reduced.
in writing. ‒ the european union attaches great importance to environmental protection and the fight against the effects of climate change. however, these actions must take account of a number of factors and the long-term effects on the various sectors of the economy, of which agriculture is a special case. it is worth remembering that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors of the economy that are significant emitters of greenhouse gases, but they are also sectors that simultaneously counteract global warming by absorbing and storing significant amounts of carbon dioxide in soils and plants. moreover, agriculture and forestry are crucial to ensuring food security in europe and supplying raw materials to many industries. given this specific nature, the environmental functions of agriculture and the already introduced restrictions, it would be problematic for the sector to include methane emission commitments in the nec directive. so it's a good thing that methane was left out of this report. eu member states are very diverse in terms of agricultural production structures, farm sizes and production patterns, and the modernisation of the sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and environmental impact should be carried out in a flexible way to avoid economic stagnation and to move the economy towards innovative and sustainable solutions. in any case, synergies between agricultural and energy policies and the environment should be ensured.
in writing. ‒ this report is convenient for many countries, but not for poland, whose economy is 90% coal-based. it's the carbon that causes the most carbon dioxide to rise in the atmosphere. the timing of the report does not allow the polish economy to branch out. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the finalisation of the basel iii package. i believe that the package will have a negative impact on the banks' customers and i have doubts about the estimated economic benefits of the proposed changes. the application of the regulation in the form of a framework rather than specific provisions does not allow a clear assessment of the effects of the package. the lack of a specific impact assessment, on the other hand, has led to a number of conflicting opinions. as experts point out, the introduction of higher capital requirements, as required by the proposed package, will mean higher costs for banks. and those will be passed on to the customers. too much doubt and a lack of clear assessment of the benefits that the package could bring motivates to continue working and, at the moment, to reject the package.
in writing. ‒ the basel committee on banking supervision has proposed improving the prudential framework for banks in the area of credit and operational risk (basel iv). the proposed measures include, inter alia, a revision of the standard method for calculating the bank's risk-weighted assets. the proposed amendments significantly contribute to reducing the role of national control authorities. this leads directly to a greater centralization of european power. that's why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because the report suggests that the eu is interfering too far in the affairs of the member states. while underlining the importance of improving security in the european union, it is important to pursue a strategy that takes into account the interests and sovereignty of states in this area. the eu should respond to challenges to the internal security of the member states, according to the report. it is clear that defence matters should always remain a matter of national sovereignty. i believe that the report presented cannot be intended to interfere with the competences of the member states, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that the eu should be the one to respond to challenges to the internal security of member states, including coups d'état, which are not covered by article 5 of nato. while the report makes many calls for cooperation with nato, it also calls for the eu's strategic autonomy. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the european security situation has deteriorated significantly, becoming less clear, more complex and unpredictable. it should be borne in mind that the security of the member states of the european union is highly interdependent and that the current situation of fragmentation and lack of coordination is particularly dangerous. it is necessary for the eu to adapt as quickly as possible to the current security challenges, in particular by making more effective use of the existing tools of the common security and defence policy in conjunction with other external and internal instruments. in particular, consideration should be given to the establishment of permanent structured cooperation, the development of a sectoral strategy for foreign and security policy, the establishment of a permanent eu headquarters for civilian and military csdp missions and operations, and further close cooperation with nato.
in writing. ‒ the idea of a common security and defence policy should be welcomed. unfortunately, the resolution goes too far and undermines the sovereignty of the member states in matters of defence policy. we should support nato's efforts, not create a burdensome regulatory framework. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ in light of the current unpredictable security situation in our closest neighbourhood, the eu needs a fully efficient common security and defence policy (csdp) even more than ever before. this is actually a view which is also shared by around two thirds of eu citizens according to the recent eurobarometer survey. personally, i am firmly convinced that, in line with the report’s recommendations, the eu should firstly make good use of its tools available at hand. this means ensuring that our currently deployed 17 military and civilian missions are able to address the whole spectrum of crisis management, and thereby that they are fulfilling their mandate properly. furthermore, the deployment of eu battlegroups should become one of the possible crisis response options for the eu as they have been operational since 2007 but have never been used. this is why the report stresses as well the importance of creating a permanent eu headquarters coupled with the extension of scope of the athena mechanism to finance all eu military missions. consequently, i am sure that this report will ensure a higher level of coherence in eu external action, thus i voted in favour.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against that. i'll refer to orwell, as mrs macovei did. well, george orwell described this mechanism perfectly when you have a thought police in a state, when you have a ministry of truth, which as an institution allows or does not allow content to be communicated to the public. i know this world because we were under moscow's rule, there was censorship and we know what the consequences were. and that nightmare world of george orwell in russia lost. but it turns out that this nightmare is now prevailing in western europe, which until recently was an oasis of freedom and free speech. you could also talk about things that a man was wrong about. there was free speech in public spaces, there was free speech, there was free communication. and unfortunately, it's a sign of the decline of the civilized west, which was once an oasis of freedom. and i would like this oasis of freedom to remain and my country to be a free country so that our thoughts and words are not administered by any offices. even if i'm wrong, i have the right to make a public announcement.
i am glad that the report on the hostile propaganda reminds us that communism destroyed the tradition and identity of the peoples conquered by the soviet union, that the tool of this destruction was the historical lie and unfortunately that this tool is still used in the politics of post-communist russia. i am glad that our appeal calls for cultural and educational policies to remind people of the crimes committed by communism and thus fulfill the duty of memory towards its victims. i only regret that we have not yet condemned the cult of the bolshevik leaders practiced in russia, but i think that the report we have adopted today is a good step in that direction, as well as in condemning the apology of the soviet union as such.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication to counter hostile propaganda by third parties. while propaganda may seem to be a thing of the past, in some countries it is still an important tool in the hands of the authorities to manipulate public opinion to carry out their policies. creating false consciousness among citizens through disinformation activities is commonplace in the russian federation. propaganda is also used to effectively recruit isis fighters. recognising the need for action, strategies should be developed to counter propaganda against the eu and its member states at various levels. one of the solutions proposed is to support organizations and special groups that are working to eliminate this phenomenon. considering the gravity of the problem, i voted yes.
in writing. - i'm glad to see you're reporting. thank you to everyone who contributed to this. i dedicate my personal work on it to the late president of the republic of poland lech kaczyński and all the other victims of the smolensk disaster. the circumstances of their deaths have been the subject of a huge wave of lies and propaganda manipulation by the kremlin.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the counter-propaganda against the eu and its member states at various levels, and discusses the necessary arrangements and changes between institutions that would allow for a faster and better response to actions taken by both the russian federation and the recruitment of isis fighters. one of the proposed solutions is to strengthen the special task force within the eeas and to support organisations such as the eed (european endowment for democracy). the report also focuses on the kremlin's propaganda and information campaigns against the eastern partnership countries and describes them as part of a broader hybrid warfare effort, recommending closer cooperation between member states, the eu and international organisations such as nato and the osce. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, there has been an increasing number of propaganda acts against the european union, especially by russia, as well as by islamic state, al-qaeda and other terrorist groups. strategic propaganda against the union and its countries is aimed at distorting facts, casting doubt, dividing the union and its partners in north america, paralysing decision-making and, above all, instilling fear and uncertainty among eu citizens. with the annexation of crimea and the start of the hybrid war in donbas, the kremlin has stepped up its anti-eu propaganda using a wide range of tools, including television, think tanks, pseudo-news agencies and social media trolls. the aim is to challenge democratic values, divide europe or win support from within. moreover, it is widely known that the kremlin funds the activities of european far-right parties or populist movements in europe that deny the basic values of liberal democracy. similar methods are used by the so-called islamic state and other terrorist organisations to facilitate their recruitment within the union. it is of the utmost importance that the union institutions and the member states work more closely together to protect young people in particular from radicalisation and recruitment to terrorist organisations. this will not be achieved without investing in education and awareness raising among citizens to facilitate critical analysis and identification of propaganda.
in writing. ‒ the european union is under increasing pressure from russia, which is using propaganda and information warfare as part of its strategy against the eu, using considerable resources dedicated solely to this purpose. the resolution addresses the countering of propaganda against the eu and its member states at various levels, and talks about the necessary arrangements and changes between institutions that would allow for a faster and better response to actions taken by both the russian federation and the recruitment of isis fighters. the report also focuses on the kremlin's propaganda and information campaigns against the eastern partnership countries and describes them as part of a broader hybrid warfare effort, recommending closer cooperation between member states, the eu and international organisations such as nato and the osce. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. – the kremlin and daesh have stepped up their propaganda war seeking to undermine the democratic foundations of the eu together with some of our neighbours’ policies. therefore, i am very glad that the eu treats that sort of disinformation campaign as a potential serious threat for its security environment. that is the reason why the eu has decided now to reinforce its strategic communication task force with adequate budgetary resources and staffing. however, the task of that unit is challenging as it has to reassure streamlining of the correct information successfully, keeping in mind that countering propaganda with propaganda is counterproductive. due to that fact, the only way of dealing with disinformation campaigns is to tackle them with professionalism in journalism. in order to do so, it is crucial to strengthen civil society within the eu and the resilience of media in our neighbourhood countries, such as ukraine. the report ensures it will be done, along with other tools, through publishing weekly newsletters creating awareness among the general public of propaganda methods. consequently, i am sure that implementation of this report will make us and our neighbours more resilient in dealing with propaganda, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the war of the digital age is largely an information war. thanks to the internet and new media, the possibilities for propaganda activities are much greater than ever before. although europe is not a party to an open armed conflict, we are subject to constant pressure from many state and non-state actors to disseminate disinformation. two of them are particularly dangerous at the moment. the russian federation is no novice in the field of propaganda warfare, but the digital revolution has created many new channels and tools to manipulate western public opinion. with the ongoing conflict in ukraine, the intensity of these activities has increased significantly and effectively distracts attention from moscow's involvement in this new era of war. this is done through the fabrication of false information, the funding of ngos and political parties in europe and cybercrime. the second entity that is trying to influence europe through disinformation and propaganda is isis a malignant political cancer that has declared war on the cultural values of the civilized world. the policy of inspiring fanatical islamists to carry out suicide attacks on european cities has already reaped a bloody harvest. the report we voted on today can be the beginning of an effective fight against disinformation and propaganda at european level, if the eu elites are determined to take swift and concrete action - especially in the case of the russian federation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the regulation of sign language and professional sign language interpreters. i believe that action on this matter is very important in order to ensure the greatest possible comfort of work for disabled people. the eu institutions are bound by the obligations of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) to implement its provisions to ensure equal treatment of citizens with disabilities. the resolution adopted proposes comprehensive solutions to facilitate the free movement of people with disabilities in public spaces and in the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the eu ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd). the eu institutions are now legally obliged to implement the provisions of the convention, which include equality for citizens with disabilities and accessibility to services. my group has asked for a statement from the commission to put pressure on the eu institutions to fully implement the convention containing provisions on sign language interpreters during public events and meetings held in the eu institutions. i hereby support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance benthazone. i believe that active substances, because of their dangerous nature, should be subject to special controls. the misuse of these compounds can lead to harmful effects for both humans and the environment. the renewal of the approval of a substance is necessary to specify the specific use of the plant protection product. the use of this chemical in a number of agricultural products must be accompanied by appropriate warnings on its specificity and effects. it is unacceptable that such substances should be left without special supervision and used freely in the production of plant protection products. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the active substance bentazone expires on 30 june 2017. the draft measure prepared by the commission approved the renewal of the authorisation of the substance and in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 and the state of the art contained certain conditions and restrictions. regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 provides for implementing powers to be exercised by the commission. the recitals of the resolution concerning the data gaps in the consumer risk assessment and the groundwater exposure were reproduced from the peer review of the risk assessment without adequately explaining why these gaps would give grounds for refusing to renew the active substance. the existence of a data gap is not a sufficient reason to object. the only confirmatory data requested were from the hormone-disrupting potential test in the developmental toxicity study in rats. this data gap was identified in relation to the application of transitional criteria for endocrine disruptors and the commission is currently in the process of defining new criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. it is therefore expected that new data will be required in any case when these criteria are applied. i hereby vote against the resolution.
in writing. - i have decided to reject this objection, which is not based on the facts. regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 provides for the exercise of implementing powers by the commission, so from a procedural point of view this objection is not very meaningful. i voted against the resolution.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
madam president! we are all against violence against women and we cannot be indifferent to the suffering of women. but we must not pretend that this nightmare will end with an ideological convention in istanbul. accession by the union will lead to the definition of the offences covered by the convention being tainted by gender ideology in all member states. an ideology that assumes that gender has a socio-cultural basis, and that assumes that violence against women is a result of a supposedly patriarchal society, which needs to be changed to the right left-wing model. the absurdity of this assumption is seen in many western european countries, which have been on this path for years and where the statistics of violence are staggering. ratification will remove all reservations to the convention made by member states and will put the eu institutions on guard against the ill-sightedness of the public.
madam president! we have been discussing the istanbul convention for a long time, especially since in many countries - for example in germany - the convention has not been ratified. it is, of course, an ideological document, imbued with marxist prejudices against the family as a space of violence. it's also, of course, a hypocritical documentary that ignores violence in settings such as casual relationships or the accompanying phenomena such as pornography. but today we are not talking about the content of this convention. this discussion has been or is still being held in our countries. today we are talking about whether to equip the european union with yet another instrument of interference in the politics of our countries, and that is something that no one who truly values democracy, sovereignty, political responsibility and public debate should agree to. i would urge those colleagues who have not yet ratified the convention to take this discussion home and leave this parliament alone!
in writing. unfortunately, women in the eu continue to be victims of violence. according to analyses carried out by the fundamental rights agency in 2014, it is estimated that one third of all women in europe have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives, 20% have experienced online harassment, one in 20 women have been raped and more than one in 10 women have been victims of sexual violence with force. it is worrying that we have made little progress in tackling this phenomenon, which is a flagrant violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. in march this year, the commission proposed that the eu accede to the istanbul convention, which is the first legally binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women. all eu member states have signed the convention, but only 14 have ratified it. the eu's accession to the convention will improve the effectiveness and coherence of the union's internal and external policy on issues related to combating and preventing violence against women and gender-based violence in europe. it will also ensure a more effective implementation of the union legislation, programmes and funds adopted for this purpose. it will also contribute to the eu's efforts in the fields of gender equality, anti-discrimination, public health and economic growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. prime minister! i was in jordan recently with a delegation from the budget control committee. it is clear that aid is flowing to this country from both the european union and the member states of the european union, as well as from international institutions. and let's be clear, we had our reservations about the appropriateness of some of the spending. we must help, but we must do it with our heads, with our brains, knowing what we are spending and controlling the money so that it does not create a black hole, because that could discourage the european taxpayer from spending the money. so trust and check. we need this help. there is the issue of education for refugee children, for example. these are humanitarian goals, but it's also important for us, for europe, that as many people as possible stay there and not come to us.
mr president, we are aware that since the beginning of the conflict in syria and iraq in 2011, the jordanian economy has significantly deteriorated. the conflict strains public finances, impacts tourism, blocks trade routes and influences the flow of natural gas from egypt. in addition, jordan hosts approximately 1.4 million syrians, of whom 635 000 are registered with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. in total. syrians now make up 21% of jordan’s 6.7 million inhabitants. this is a very heavy burden to carry for such a small country. the commission proposes making available to jordan macro-financial assistance (mfa) for a maximum amount of eur 200 million, provided in two instalments in the form of loans, but i do not believe this is enough. i fully support the idea to increase the amount of mfa up to eur 350 million. obviously the allocations would be conditional on successful programme reviews under the imf’s new financial arrangement and jordan would need to commit to specific reforms. jordan is home to tens of thousands of refugees from syria. it has been carrying this burden for many years and we need to do everything to help them in this situation. let us not waste any more time because the situation is getting worse by the minute.
mr. chairman, please! the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan is undoubtedly not only justified but also urgently needed. this country is one of the most affected by the migration crisis. the number of non-jordanian residents is estimated to have doubled since 2011, placing jordan as the world record holder for the proportion of refugees to the population. in addition, the volatile situation in the region has had a significant impact on its economic situation. jordan is a country of particular importance to the region, as it offers the chance to restore political and economic stability in the area and is therefore strategic for its security. there is no doubt that everything possible must be done to help jordan to play its best possible role in this important area, as well as to ensure sustainability and stability, and that is why macroeconomic support is undoubtedly very much needed here.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report contains many encouraging provisions, such as paragraph 32, which calls for products purchased in digital or physical form to be subject to this tax. paragraph 65 rightly draws attention to carousel and emerging trader fraud. however, i do not believe that the so-called reverse charge mechanism paragraph 37 will reduce fraud or improve the situation of smes. it is an artificial transfer of responsibility between the parties. i cannot vote for a report with provisions aimed at harmonizing tax policy. a healthy competitive environment cannot simply be called a barrier. i am not in favour of financial services being covered by vat and of the creation of another body, the european public prosecutor's office, as stated in paragraph 79.
blue-card question. – excuse my ignorance, ms scott cato, but i do not quite understand the ‘gender dimension of vat’. could you could explain this?
mr president, first of all let me congratulate our rapporteur mr langen on an excellent report. in the report, we can read that the current vat system across the eu is excessively complicated, with a multitude of vat rates and exemptions that put unnecessary burden on companies involved in cross-border trading. moreover, this complexity opens up ample possibilities for vat fraud and vat avoidance within the single market. according to the commission’s assessment, in 2014 alone the vat gap between expected revenue and revenue actually collected was estimated at about eur 160 billion. these enormous losses suffered by all member states call for swift and ambitious action to address vat fraud. the focus should be on three areas: firstly, we should minimise the amount of goods that benefit from reduced vat rates across the eu. secondly, in the longer run, we should aim at gradually harmonising national vat rates within the single market. thirdly, the eu should take steps to address tax fraud coming from the so-called carousel schemes. one way of solving this last problem is to ask banks to separate the vat obligations from the gross price paid for a given transaction. a payment by a payer for any given invoice should then be immediately split by the bank into vat tax due that would be transferred to the national tax authority, and the remaining amount would be transferred to the seller’s account.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to take part in this debate and point out that in my country, poland, the so-called vat gap has in recent years been 30% of revenue, and thus clearly above the eu average. therefore, the new polish government has been taking action since the beginning of this year, changing the law, reforming the tax services, which has already had good results, and vat revenues are almost 10% higher than in the same period last year. the changes to non-vat legislation include, inter alia, restrictions on the quarterly system for the clearance of vat, the extension of the reverse vat system, restrictions on the registration of 'pylons' for vat evasion, an increase in the size of financial penalties and penalties for vat evasion, and the introduction of a central register of receipts and a central register of invoices. it therefore seems to me that the proposals drawn up by the commission to reduce vat evasion should concern only intra-community trade, while the decision on the remainder should be left to the individual member states.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank my colleague werner langen very much for this initiative and for the document we are discussing. and indeed, these 28 different vat systems are one of the main barriers to our european single market. it's also one of the reasons for geoblocking that's very often mentioned. 28 different legal systems too many of these rules, often very complex. so entrepreneurs who are afraid of complications with vat in different countries, complicated procedures and procedures that they don't know, often limit themselves to those countries where they understand vat, where they can deal with vat without additional hiring, without additional hassle. this is particularly true for small businesses. they limit their development and their earnings, and the consumer has less access to products and services from all over our great common market. it also means less competition in our european market. we have been talking about this for a long time, and i expect the european commission, commissioner, to make a bold, bold proposal on vat matters, and i strongly urge that at least vat procedures be harmonised in our common european market.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to take this opportunity to call attention to culture, to call attention to the vat regulations and practices that cover culture in the broad sense, the creative industries, the creators themselves. it was particularly in the case of vat that maintenance services were very often treated very differently. it was in the area of culture that audiobooks had reduced vat, whereas e-books no longer had. unfortunately, many of these elements have in practice been applied to the cultural sphere and to the artists themselves. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very much. it's the right step in the right direction, but what i'm missing in the finale, in this long-term perspective, is culture itself.
in writing. in 2014, vat revenue amounted to almost eur 1 trillion. unfortunately, the current vat system, especially in cross-border transactions, is prone to fraud and error. moreover, the effectiveness of the fight against such fraud varies widely from one member state to another. europol estimates that the activities of organised crime groups lead to losses of revenue to member states of around eur 50 billion per year. the scale of this phenomenon is extremely difficult to estimate, as only two member states collect statistics on this issue. simplification of the system, including through the use of modern technology, is of the utmost importance in the fight against vat fraud. the aim should also be to minimise both the financial and administrative burden on businesses. the effectiveness of the fight against vat fraud will be enhanced by the cooperation of member states in reaching agreement on the definitive vat system. the coordination of tax policies and the exchange of information in this field between member states and between member states' tax authorities will also be effective. it is also worthwhile to seek to include the judiciary and law enforcement authorities in the exchange of information. the commission's announcement that it will propose a simpler and more efficient vat system by 2017 is to be welcomed.
mr. chairman, please! as long as buyers are willing to pay huge sums for valuable specimens, the illegal trade in wildlife will continue. and always - especially when the punishment for the crime is small in relation to the profit made - there will be people and groups organizing the crime. and let's note that despite a lot of campaigns, training and increasing public awareness, we are still seeing an increase in this crime, not just locally, but primarily in the form of cross-border organized crime. there is therefore a need to strengthen european law and enhance global cooperation in this field, as well as to increase member states' compliance with union law. but the fight against this practice cannot end the beautiful tradition of hunting, for in many cases hunters have restored or saved many endangered species.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. small and medium-sized enterprises in the transport sector face many constraints: tax, environmental and social barriers that effectively hinder their functioning. overcoming these barriers is not possible without friendly legislation. the digital revolution has created many new opportunities for small and medium-sized transport enterprises. new business models based on the sharing of transport means are the most popular of these opportunities, which is why we so badly need a sensible and comprehensive assessment of their impact on the entire transport services market. neither self-regulation nor excessive restrictions on this segment will be conducive to innovation, safety and protection of consumer and worker rights. it is no longer a question of giving too much weight to social aspects, as this report unfortunately tends to do, but of a balanced and coordinated response to the challenges of the digital revolution at european level. it is also clear that all forms of state protectionism, which we have seen for many months, especially in the road haulage sector, are damaging to the development of small transport companies. it is worthwhile for the european commission, when designing the future of the european road transport market, to bear in mind that it is in this sector that the largest number of small and medium-sized companies are located and that most of them are companies from poland and other central european countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. small and medium-sized enterprises are a key driver of economic growth and job creation, and it is therefore important to remove all barriers to their development. light commercial vehicles play an important role in the european transport sector. in recent years, we have seen a significant increase in small and medium-sized transport companies, which has translated into a more than 30% increase in demand for the vehicles and services they provide. i therefore welcome the report and support the provisions which support the development of smes, the need to reduce burdens, excessive regulation and support for access to finance and credit. however, like the spanish or portuguese delegation i cannot agree with paragraph 37 and the polish delegation will vote against its adoption. the proposal to make light vehicles subject to the same requirements as large transport vehicles carrying tens of tonnes of goods at a time will have a negative impact on small european transport companies, which are mainly engaged in short-distance transport of goods. we are concerned that this would not only result in additional administrative burdens and costs, but would also limit their development and competitiveness.
mr. chairman, please! small transport enterprises are an important part of the european economy not only because they contribute to employment and growth. in many areas, they significantly improve the accessibility and quality of passenger transport. small transport companies have developed their activities and are well-functioning where rail infrastructure is lacking and road transport is insufficient, facilitating the mobility of residents. this is an important task from the point of view of territorial and social cohesion. i therefore believe that these companies should be supported and given the right conditions to develop. i agree with the author of the report that we need better coordination between local and regional authorities and these actors, not only in urban areas but also in those very remote, sparsely populated areas with less infrastructure. their cooperation is essential to meet challenges such as digitalisation, emission reduction and the good use of structural funds.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. two things are clear from today's debate. the first is that these agreements are necessary and that we all think they are necessary. and the second conclusion is that we know nothing about them, that we are not informed, that the european commission is ignoring article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. ladies and gentlemen! draw lessons from reality! now we have massive protests against ttip and against ceta. most of these protests, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of the fact that the european parliament and the parties concerned have not been informed of the progress of the negotiations, the direction in which they are taking, and so on. and today, too: today the commissioner has answered a few questions, but it is clear that we want more answers. ladies and gentlemen! draw lessons from reality!
in writing. with reference to the european commission's aviation strategy adopted in 2015 and the newly launched negotiations on aviation safety with japan and china, as well as the eu-asean air communication agreements, i would like to express my concern about the risk of unfair competition that could arise in the case of flights over russia. as a result of the sanctions imposed on russia and its response to them, european airlines are paying significantly higher fares for transit flights over russian territory. the amounts we're talking about here are very large. some european airlines have extensive networks and even several hundred flights over russia. tickets are already very expensive. signing an agreement with china, for example, whose airlines have much lower transit fares over russia, could cause many european carriers to simply go out of business. i would also like to point out that the commission should seek to harmonise the charges for the operation of flights over the territory of a given country, in this case the countries of the european union. the current charges are uneven and there are large differences which should be harmonised.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the decision taken by the european commission, leaning towards the position of the german regulator on the opal gas pipeline, decisively undermines all positive effective positions of the european commission regarding the nord stream 2 gas pipeline. it significantly increases gazprom's dominance in the central and eastern european energy markets, making it gazprom that gains a de facto hegemonic position. this decision is contested by polish companies such as pgnig. the ukrainian side also objects. the decision undermines european law, it also undermines the principle of solidarity with ukraine and other countries as enshrined in the energy community treaty, the association agreement with ukraine and other legal acts.
honestly, i'm tired of hearing that you have to fight gazprom, then you build nord stream 2, then you rebuild opal. if we want to make a difference in the energy sector, we have to remember that tea is sweeter not so much from blending it as from adding sugar, so we have to take care of the energy supply, not to drown people with windmills or solar panels, but to take care of really cheap energy, gas and oil. libya is one such reservoir, for example, and if someone in the european commission had any good sense, they would have made an agreement with the libyans of cyrenaica, who are fighting for independence, who want to secede from libya: they made an agreement with them, they provided them with weapons and money. we'd have the cyrenaica oil supply all set up. unfortunately, no one does, and it's just words and words and words. i'm really sick of this. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. 2016 is coming to an end, the year of the energy union. the commission has put forward some very good proposals, including under the gas package a regulation on security of gas supply or a decision on intergovernmental agreements. at the same time, however, the european commission recently approved a new decision by the german regulator on the opal gas pipeline. i appreciate the commission's efforts to base this decision on market mechanisms, but there is still no fully competitive energy market in central europe and there are even energy islands, as is well known. this makes the opal decision as controversial as the nord stream expansion plans. it is also contrary to the spirit of the energy union: firstly, it weakens the energy security of the region by favouring one supplier; secondly, it creates tensions between eu countries; and thirdly, it puts the neighbours of the union, including ukraine, at odds. and one more thing - i say this as rapporteur for the european parliament's regulation on the security of gas supply: today the council is blocking the commission's proposals, which are good in any case, in the tripartite talks on this very regulation on the security of gas supply. paradoxically, the commission's opal decision may confirm the view of some countries that the interest, the letter and the spirit of the energy union is irrelevant, and that this would be the worst solution and the worst assumption for energy security.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. security is the greatest need of the people of europe today, the most important criterion for assessing or measuring the usefulness of the european union for the people of our continent and the most important area of confrontation with populism, which lives on the fear and fear of our continent. the many dimensions of security that europeans need are indeed materializing in what we call the energy union or energy security. this comes after a few lessons from the main supplier in the east, who not only abuses his dominant position, but also sometimes uses gas as a political weapon. this is reflected in the european union's regulations, in the financing possibilities for the expansion of infrastructure, which is the technical prerequisite for european solidarity. we note indeed as an important step the new regulation on security of gas supply of 16 february 2016, which in our parliament is in the safe hands of jerzy buzek as rapporteur. but apart from those projects that build security, we have projects that call into question this type of regulation, but both projects have been mentioned: the nord stream 2 project and the decision on the possibility of using the opal gas pipeline to 100%. all the arguments have been made in this case, so i'll save you some time.
mr. chairman, please! we have raised the issue of europe's energy security dozens of times in this chamber, but i feel that we are still faced with the same painful reality. although the european union is the world's economic power, it is not the eu that dictates the terms of our energy security. our high dependence on energy from third countries can also, in my view, pose a threat to the sovereignty of the union. i therefore call on us to be able to overcome national egoisms and not to allow ourselves to be manipulated and divided by third parties, for example in the implementation of projects such as nord stream 2. i am convinced that only by acting together and by giving a strong signal of our unity and solidarity can we increase the eu's energy security and act in the interests of european consumers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 2015, the european ombudsman's office dealt with a number of complaints and addressed a number of important issues, including the transparency of trade negotiations between the european union and the united states and the cooling-off period. the amendment of the code of conduct for eu officials on cooling-off is clearly needed. the 18-month period between resignation and taking up a new post is too short. however, openness is the foundation of democratic states and citizens' access to documents is an important pillar of the openness system. however, its limits should be defined. do advocates of full transparency in trade negotiations, of access to these documents for everyone and of negotiations in their own countries have systems in place to allow everyone to have such access to knowledge about international relations, financial, monetary or economic policy? do they really want documents from member states classified as confidential to be made public on every request? these categories are the only ones that were included in the 2001 regulation of the european parliament and the council and should be respected in the course of the work on documents in the european parliament. after all, the knowledge available could be used not only by concerned citizens but also by those who would like to use the information obtained for their own benefit or to the detriment of the public interest. idealism is extremely socially viable. the question is whether such a solution would be safe for the people. i therefore call for a deliberate vote on the amendments tabled to the report on the report of the european ombudsman for 2015.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. chairman of the commission! the group of european conservatives and reformists will be in favour of adopting this report. however, we do point out a few elements. first of all, of course, this is a political office, there's no need to hide it. if he's dealing with the ttip trade and investment treaty between the eu and america, then there's a political dimension to it, and let's not pretend that it's not. i think the important thing is the issue of the code of conduct, the conduct of officials. this is something that is expected by public opinion - perhaps not by all citizens - but by public opinion in our member states. here, union officials should be like caesar's wife - above suspicion. and finally, i think that sometimes the disputes between the different institutions - the ombudsman, the commission and sometimes parliament - add credibility to the real debate that should be taking place in the european union if the european union is to be credible to the citizens, to the taxpayers.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the commission, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my appreciation for the ombudsman's work and my support for the report by mr marias. indeed, this emphasis on transparency deserves very strong support; i am glad that the transparency check will also cover these new eu institutions, the three main institutions working together and the activities of the eurogroup. as always in public affairs, the key is whether we are clear and whether we act systematically. i very much hope that the interinstitutional agreement proposed by commissioner timmermans will be implemented. but i would also like to draw attention to the report by mr giegold, which is very precise and unambiguous in its approach to transparency, calling for the introduction of a legislative footprint in all reports, for example, and for an extension of the period during which former eu officials cannot be employed by businesses. i very much hope that the commission will support this approach, as it is in the parliament's report on transparency, and that there will indeed be synergy in the transparency efforts.
mr president, the office of the european ombudsman deals with instances of maladministration in the activities of the european institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. in 2015, the ombudsman helped over 17 000 europeans, mostly from spain, germany, poland and belgium. in addition, the ombudsman launched 17 own-initiative inquiries regarding major issues on the eu agenda, such as ttip transparency, whistleblowing or the european citizens’ initiative. it is also important to mention that the activities of the european network of ombudsmen has been increased to include the national and regional ombudsmen, aimed at fostering cooperation and conducting parallel investigations in important subjects such as the forced return of illegal immigrants. i would also like to congratulate the ombudsman on the initiative of the award for good administration that was inspired by the examples of exemplary administration carried out by civil servants. the ombudsman wants to underline the fact that useful work for citizens goes sometimes unnoticed because of distance and that good practice is not shared within the administration. i hope that this award will help to refocus the situation and i firmly support this reinforcement. it is a good way to show our appreciation for these good practices. i wish the ombudsman further success and dedication in everyday work and i wish her good luck because her work has been exemplary. i wish her all the best in continuing the work.
mr. chairman, please! in 2015, the ombudsman's office helped over 17 000 citizens, of which almost 14 000 cases were resolved by giving advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website. over 2 000 cases were dealt with as complaints, over 1 000 as requests for information. compared to the previous year, the number of complaints remained at a similar level, but the percentage of complaints in the total number of cases was higher than in 2014. spain was the country with the highest number of complaints, followed by germany, poland, belgium and the united kingdom. unfortunately, we have no information on how satisfied citizens are with the handling of these complaints, but the statistics themselves are optimistic. wishing ms emily o'reilly continued success, i hope that the institution of the european ombudsman will continue to improve its work to ensure that citizens enjoy their rights to the full. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr marias, on a job well done.
on behalf of the s&d group. once again, we are discussing the situation in russia, especially in the context of the repression of activists who are critical of the authorities. ildar dadin was sentenced for participating in peaceful demonstrations, including against russian aggression in ukraine and in defence of political prisoners. last december, he was sentenced to three years in prison for repeated violations of the rules on public assembly. through the lawyer of the convict we now learn of the beating and torture of convicts in the penal colony in siegeij in karelia, where ildar dadin is being held. as a member of many international organisations, such as the council of europe and the united nations, russia is committed to protecting and promoting human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. in this context, we call on the russian authorities to conduct a thorough investigation into the allegations of inhumane treatment in the above-mentioned prison unit without delay. in addition, we call on the kremlin authorities to continue and deepen reform of the prison system and the penal code in order to implement the standards set by international conventions.
in writing. ‒ i supported macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the ongoing conflicts in jordan's neighbours, iraq and syria, have a very significant impact on the country's economy. negative effects of war leave the kingdom in a bad economic condition. the support will allow for a priority partnership for the future. the support for the granting of the measures is justified by the efforts of the kingdom of jordan in the area of migration policy, which is expressed in the reception of refugees from syria, as well as in the fight against the challenges of providing support to them. it should be stressed that an important aspect of this case is the creation of instruments to monitor the proper use of funds by the beneficiary state. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. jordan is in a difficult geographical situation, with the war in syria and iraq close to its borders having a significant impact on its economy. jordan is currently one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis declining tourism and foreign direct investment revenues, blocked trade routes and recurrent disruptions to natural gas supplies from egypt have hampered economic growth in jordan and negatively impacted its fiscal position. in my view, jordan's efforts to welcome and support refugees should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the conflicts in jordan's neighbours, iraq and syria, have had a major impact on the country's economy. at the conference on support to syria and the neighbouring regions in london on 4 february 2016, the eu committed to provide eur 2,39 billion to countries affected by the syrian refugee crisis, as well as a loan of eur 200 million for jordan's second macro-financial assistance operation. the disbursement of the union's macro-financial assistance shall be managed by the commission and implemented in accordance with the agreements or understandings reached between the international monetary fund and jordan, and based on the broad principles and objectives of economic reforms as set out in the eu-jordan association agreement, the single support framework for 2014-17, and the partnership priorities for the future. i support the operation to grant macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ the conflicts in jordan's neighbours, iraq and syria, have had a major impact on the country's economy. at the conference on support for syria and the near east in london, the eu committed eur 2.39 billion to countries affected by the syrian refugee crisis, as well as a eur 200 million loan for macro-financial assistance to jordan. the disbursement of the union's macro-financial assistance shall be managed by the commission and implemented in accordance with the agreements or understandings reached between the international monetary fund and jordan, and based on the broad principles and objectives of economic reforms as set out in the eu-jordan association agreement, the single support framework for 2014-17, and the partnership priorities for the future. the kingdom of jordan's efforts to welcome syrian refugees and the challenges of supporting them are noteworthy. we have also stated on many occasions that such support is conditional on the correct use of funds by the state. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of the directive on the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision and the supervision of such institutions (iorps). the text adopted takes account of the principle of proportionality and stresses that pensions are a competence of the member states. the directive focuses on the rules concerning the cross-border aspect of iorps. the directive covers the protection of iorps' members and beneficiaries, who must be adequately informed of the rules of the pension scheme. the provisions of this directive aim to ensure the protection of future pensioners, members of pension schemes and beneficiaries and to safeguard the role of the member states in the actions taken.
in writing. ‒ the first iorp directive was introduced in 2003 and proposals for the second iorp directive started to appear in 2014. iorps manage private collective pension schemes for employers so that their employees can benefit from an occupational pension that includes employer-paid contributions. iorps are not linked to public pensions, which fall under national competence (first pillar), and to private pensions (third pillar). the report shall cover the governance, risk management, transparency and disclosure of information by the iorp. stresses that pensions are a competence of the member states, puts more emphasis on the rules for cross-border iorps than for national iorps and repeals all delegated acts originally proposed by the commission. it ensures that members (employees) and pensioners are informed of all relevant features of their pension scheme in a form adapted to the needs of the users of the annual pension benefit statement and are consulted when decisions affecting the payment of their pensions are taken. the format of the list is less mandatory than the one originally proposed by the commission. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ when allowing crossborder transfers of pension liabilities, the regulatory authorities of both member states must base the authorisation on a strict set of criteria. the transfer will then have to be approved by the pension scheme's members and beneficiaries. it's a proposal that could actually improve the way this issue works. i voted yes.
mr. chairman, please! the conflict in syria is a clear example of how much the world has changed in recent years. the tragedy that the people of this country are experiencing is hard to describe: death and suffering can come from anywhere at any time, and the world, including europe, is watching helplessly. no rules are being respected, all sides are committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, international humanitarian law is being flouted, humanitarian convoys and hospitals treating wounded civilians are being attacked despite being clearly marked. it's clear that the goal of all parties is to intimidate the civilian population, which is supposed to help defeat the enemy. more than 400,000 people have been killed since the conflict began, and nearly 14 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. experts say the conflict in syria would have ended long ago if it had not turned into a so-called proxy war. it's a place where iran is at war with saudi arabia, russia is at war with america, and turkey is at war with the multilateral game. all these nations try to support their allies and thus make it more difficult for the war to end. let's be clear: it's the outside world that's fueling this tragedy. the european union should first try to convince all parties to stop getting involved in this conflict, then we can discuss a peace plan for syria. at the same time, we should prepare for the post-war period, because the end of the fighting will not improve the situation of ordinary people. initiatives should be planned now to support the reconstruction of this country, both infrastructure and economy, and social trust. the latter will be particularly difficult to achieve, for civil wars, like no other, create internal divisions that are difficult to overcome. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for an urgent solution to the conflict in syria, which is leading to a tragic situation in that country. the death toll has exceeded 400,000, and 12 million people have been forced to flee their homes. after such a long and tragic war, international action is urgently needed to end the conflict. as a member of the european parliament, i also call for an urgent international solution to the conflict and for the barbaric attacks on civilians and aid workers to be condemned. i am convinced that all possible actions and steps must be taken to put an end to this brutal conflict and terrorism, in which civilians suffer the most.
in writing. ‒ has the situation improved in any of the countries where the ruling regime was overthrown and 'democracy' was introduced? russia and the assad regime are said to be responsible for the situation in syria. we know from the media reports that in this part of the country where the assad regime was overthrown, isis and daesh militants are rampant, civilians have been massacred, and the buildings are in ruins. and where assad has not been driven out, there is still infrastructure left and there are still people alive who are trying to survive. independent right-wing media reports say assad is the guarantor of survival for those who remain. during the session, it was said that the eu cannot remain silent on syria. well, then, let him force russia, turkey, and above all the united states to leave syria immediately and leave both the people and bashar al-assad alone. they'll be all right. without us.
in writing. ‒ a partial ceasefire was negotiated in september, with the us and russia participating, ending airstrikes in rebel-held territory and allowing both sides access to humanitarian aid. unfortunately, syrian government forces backed by russia have recently stepped up attacks on rebel-held areas in the country's second largest city, aleppo. intensive and prolonged aerial bombardments, including on humanitarian convoys, have killed thousands of people, almost all of them civilians. the us and its allies have condemned the attacks as war crimes and accused russia of "barbarism". moscow has vigorously denied the allegations and criticized the "unacceptable rhetoric". i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu. the justification for my vote is the situation that has been taking place in turkey since the coup d'état in july. i think turkey is an important geopolitical partner in terms of building a strategic security system for europe. however, the ongoing troubles both in internal destabilisation and in external relations with the eu have led to a deterioration of turkey's position on the path to membership of the community structures. taking steps to unambiguously freeze turkey-eu relations could lead to a cooling of relations, which could in turn have irreversible political consequences.
in writing. ‒ the coup attempt that took place in turkey on 15 july 2016 resulted in the deaths of hundreds of people. over 2,000 people were injured. a few days later, the turkish authorities declared a state of emergency, which now gives the authorities almost unlimited control over the population. the european parliament, in its previous resolution, strongly condemned the coup in turkey but also stressed the importance of protecting democracy. but in a country that has been friendly to us, that seems to be broken. for these reasons, the european parliament should send a clear signal that the accession negotiations with turkey should be frozen and cannot continue in the current situation. a state which does not respect the principles of democracy and the rule of law, which considers the death penalty, which persecutes hundreds of thousands of citizens, which restricts freedom of speech, which restricts the activities of independent media and independent newspapers cannot be part of the european community. both sides should engage in dialogue to find a peaceful and democratic solution to the tense situation in turkey. it should be borne in mind that the freezing of the negotiation process will have negative consequences for both parties.
in writing. ‒ turkey is in a state of social and political chaos following the alleged coup attempt last july. the aim of the coup was to overthrow president erdoğan, who was accused of an authoritarian style of government and of undermining fundamental rights and freedoms. the european parliament's resolution on turkey of april 2016 expressed deep concern at the regression in the area of democracy and the rule of law and the decline in the overall pace of reforms in the country. since then, the risk of the commission and the member states freezing the accession negotiations with turkey has been growing steadily. i abstained from the vote because of the lack of new information on the relationship between the two entities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. this is a very important subject. action must be taken to protect women from violence. i wouldn't want to be seen as a person who condones violence against women. this decision was prompted by concerns about the provisions of the resolution which violate the principle of subsidiarity. these provisions transpose the provisions of the convention into national law and the criminal law system. the protection of women from violence cannot be based on gender ideology but must be based on effective legislation and action. the resolution proposed is ideological in nature. in order to ensure the best possible system of protection of women against violence, work should be undertaken on alternative draft resolutions which have been developed with a view to achieving consensus.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the accession of the european union as a party to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. the document, signed by 43 countries and ratified by 15, was hailed as the gold standard for violence-reduction policies at the 2013 un session in new york. the main advantage of this convention, in addition to the provisions on assistance to victims of violence and the recognition and punishment of acts of violence, is the chapter on prevention. he says the key to preventing violence is to promote equality, to spread awareness of women's rights, both among school-age youth and adult women and men. it also includes the dissemination of gender and sex education and correctional workshops for perpetrators of violence to prevent the recurrence of violent behavior. the convention talks about including men in the fight against violence, because their influence on perpetrators of violence is very effective and efficient. i believe that this convention, as a vehicle for an effective, modern approach to violence, should be ratified as soon as possible in all eu countries, and i therefore welcome the decision of the european commission to accede to the eu-wide convention. i am also proud that poland is among the countries that have ratified the convention and whose legislation is almost 100% consistent with the requirements of this important document.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a firm fight against violence against women, and poland is one of the countries with the lowest rates of such crimes. at the same time, poland cannot support a resolution calling on the eu to join the istanbul convention and establish its own legal act. every eu country has laws against violence and additional provisions will not change anything. they are, however, a matter for the member states. i do not hereby support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ violence against women is not a private matter. it's a serious crime and it's still a huge problem in europe. too often, unfortunately, violence against women is tolerated, and it is our duty to join forces to fight impunity and protect victims. it is therefore time to build a culture of respect for the dignity of women and girls, to fight stereotypes and to focus on prevention. unfortunately, in the european union, one in three women has experienced physical or sexual violence in her lifetime. in this context, the decision of the european commission, which proposed in march 2016 that the union as a whole should also accede to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women, is welcomed. however, it should be noted that some community countries have not yet acceded to the convention. i hope that this situation will change soon.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution received broad support throughout parliament. the joint text explicitly called on the member states to ratify (and transpose into national law) the provisions of the istanbul convention so that the eu could accede to it as an international entity. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, drawn up by ms emily o'reilly, for the year 2015. the report was presented in a clear and factual manner. the report highlights the main problems and provides assurances about the ombudsman's wide range of initiatives and activities. the report is based on concrete information and detailed statistics which give an idea of the nature and importance of the ombudsman's work. in 2015, the european ombudsman's office assisted 17 033 citizens of the european union. the data presented underline the importance of this institution and the purposefulness of the measures taken, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report raises a number of important issues, such as maladministration in the functioning of the ecb due to conflicts of interest arising from its status as a monetary authority and as a member of the troika/quad. it also calls for transparency in the operation of the european stability mechanism (esm) and finally asks the european ombudsman to investigate the so-called 'revolving door' in the commission, as in the case of former european commission president josé manuel barroso, who was hired as an adviser and possibly in the future as the ceo of goldman sachs international. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ improving the quality of the services offered to citizens by the european administration should be a high priority for the european ombudsman, who is continuously working to, for example, increase the transparency of the ttip negotiations and provide additional clarifications based on a dialogue with the european commission. the issue of openness, which is essential for the proper functioning of democracy, is of great importance in order to build the european parliament's dialogue and cooperation with civil society. increasing public access to documents of the european institutions can therefore contribute to improving the quality of this dialogue. transparency in the context of lobbying and the proper justification of decisions taken at european level which have an impact on the conduct of business in the eu, and in particular the largest, dominant ones, is also very important. the lobbyists themselves should also be interested in such solutions, as they will avoid the perception of illicit pressure on politicians. the european ombudsman's key tasks also include improving the european citizens' initiative and involving them more closely in eu policy-making, thus contributing to the credibility of the european institutions. the authority is also dealing with a growing number of cases concerning various types of irregularities or the respect of fundamental rights in the context of the eu's cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the report was presented in an attractive way, highlighting the main problems and ensuring that the initiatives and actions of the european ombudsman were adequate. as in the previous year, the presentation was accompanied by a range of information and detailed statistics about the ombudsman's work, allowing for direct and easy comparison. unfortunately, the report is only available in english on the ombudsman's website, which limits the scope of its readership. i supported the resolution accepting the erpo report.
mr. chairman, please! once again, the old adage that temporary solutions are the most permanent has been proven true. it will soon be a quarter of a century since the transitional vat system came into force in the single market. everyone was aware that he was imperfect, susceptible to fraud and manipulation. the commission then committed itself to prepare final, improved regulations quickly, but only now announces that it intends to propose such a draft by 2017. the assumptions put forward by the commission indicate that it has adopted minimalistic objectives. this is not surprising, however, given that this legal act must be agreed by all member states. the vat gap in some member states is close to 40%. this situation needs to be improved quickly, and it would be good to look at the solutions used in some member states and discuss them. one solution is to adopt a so-called reverse vat, i.e. the principle that the consumer of the product and service would be the payer. this solution allows for the partial closure of many loopholes and makes it difficult to circumvent the law. at least that is the conclusion of countries that have partially implemented such a system. the union and its member states cannot afford such huge tax losses, especially in a period of budgetary stability problems and rising public expenditure. i therefore wish the commission good luck and perseverance on this subject and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reform of the european vat system, because of concerns about the possibility of interfering with competences that are the exclusive competence of the member states. i do not think that the current taxation rules should be harmonised. the european union may apply general guidance to the member states in this respect. tax legislation is the exclusive competence of the member states and it is for the member states to organise the rates and the collection of vat in practice. due to concerns about interference in the internal affairs of the state in this matter, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to discuss the commission's work on reforming the european vat system and combating vat fraud across europe. the possible directions of reform are set out in more detail in the commission's action plan on vat, which was published last spring. the european parliament expects the commission to present a proposal on the definitive vat system by 2017. however, the report contains many provisions aimed at harmonising tax policies between eu member states. i also do not support the inclusion of financial services in vat and the creation of another body that would be an independent european public prosecutor's office. i have hereby disapproved the report.
in writing. ‒ the vat system in the european union, which has existed since 1993, was introduced as a transitional solution. it was to be replaced by definitive rules based, in principle, on the taxation of supplies of goods and services in the member state of destination. unfortunately, after 23 years, the system remains unchanged, contributing to a widening vat gap and significant cross-border fraud. in 2016, the european commission finally decided to submit a legislative proposal to base the vat system on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, rather than the country of origin as it has been the case until now. the commission also announced that it would present a proposal to modernise and simplify the vat system for cross-border e-commerce. the main thrust of the solution is to introduce a one-stop shop for online sales of tangible goods to final consumers and to abolish the vat exemption for imports of small consignments of goods from third country suppliers. i believe that the commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, that it will facilitate cross-border activities and help to close the current vat gap. at the same time, i am pleased that the european parliament document clearly emphasises that the member states remain independent in setting the standard rate and the reduced rate of vat.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to discuss the commission's work on reforming the european vat system and combating vat fraud across europe. unfortunately, the direction taken does not guarantee effective action against vat fraud, causing more chaos in the institutions responsible for the vat system. at the same time, it should be added that member states should make use of the available means to combat vat fraud in a measurable way. that's why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union action plan against illegal wildlife trade. the adopted plan aims to combat and prevent crime linked to illicit trafficking within the eu. i believe that action should be taken to combat these practices effectively. to this end, better coordination of cooperation and more effective prevention systems should be established. there is also a need to build comprehensive and coordinated action by member states in different policy areas. the issue of strengthening the eu rules governing the importation into the member states of objects protected by eu regulations is also an important one. i voted in favour of the regulation, seeing that it was necessary to regulate these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan against illegal wildlife trade. wildlife trafficking is a multi-billion euro criminal business dominated by organised crime groups that, motivated by high profits and low risks, have for years destroyed, often irreversibly, valuable species of flora and fauna. the european parliament's action plan, built around three priorities: preventing and addressing wildlife trafficking, ensuring effective implementation and enforcement of existing legislation to combat organised wildlife crime, and deepening global partnerships with countries of origin, transit and destination to combat illegal wildlife trafficking, is, in my view, essential for the protection of nature and the natural heritage of europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the world has seen an increase in wildlife crime. shocking images of rhinos and elephants bleeding to death, and of birds, amphibians, and reptiles being smuggled across borders and held in inhumane conditions, have become commonplace. moreover, the illegal trade in wildlife has become one of the most lucrative activities of organised crime groups, with an estimated turnover of between eur 8 billion and eur 20 billion per year. in recent years, there has also been a significant increase in the global demand for animals themselves or their products, and the scale of trade is now so large that many of the most recognizable species on earth are now threatened. one factor that facilitates the illegal trade in wildlife is the heterogeneity of legal systems across countries, which leads to international organised crime moving with the sale to countries with low sanctions or low effectiveness of the relevant services. combating this practice therefore requires a closer partnership between the countries of origin and transit and the countries of destination, as well as cooperation between regional actors. without this, i fear we will soon see the extinction of many precious species of plants and animals in various parts of the world.
mr. chairman, please! the subject of this report is extremely important for a number of reasons. the document focuses on the challenges faced by companies in the transport sector and on recommendations on how to exploit the existing potential. i would like to draw your attention today to an extremely important element that was unfortunately missing from this document. it is clarity, the rule of law and predictability that allow businesses to grow and invest. unfortunately, due to the measures taken in some member states, such as france and germany, many operators providing crossborder services have found themselves in a situation of legal uncertainty. this situation for germany has been going on since the beginning of 2015 (two years soon) and has still not been clarified by the european commission. i would like to make it very clear that the problem is not the introduction of the minimum wage - this is a very positive decision that needs to be considered and commended - but the problem is the unclear rules and the enormous administrative burden that will hit the smallest businesses. the situation in the transport sector has a major impact on the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole, for example in terms of transport costs. i would therefore like to appeal once again to the european commission to clarify as soon as possible the doubts raised by the application of the minimum wage to various transport services.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of small transport enterprises, which are particularly difficult to assess because of the varied business profiles depending on the means of transport, the country, the type of service provided and the competitive structure of the market in which they operate. these include family businesses, smes, micro-enterprises, craft enterprises and start-ups. as they all fall within the scope of the mobility system to a greater or lesser extent, each requires a different approach. the report supports new business models and calls for a clear and proportionate legal framework for small transport companies. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized transport enterprises play a key role in ensuring proper mobility in europe, but often face significant difficulties in gaining access to or maintaining their market presence, mainly due to existing monopolies. by having a better knowledge of the local market, closer contact with the customer or, more often, flexibility and the ability to innovate, small businesses improve individual passenger transport, especially in the difficult final leg of journeys in densely populated or highly isolated areas. that's why their support is so important. particular attention should therefore be paid to further reducing existing bureaucratic obstacles or combating monopolies, as well as to technological support and the development of the sharing economy for smes. it is necessary to promote convergence between the traditional economy and new platforms that support innovation in smes. to achieve this, a more transnational, european approach to the cooperative business model needs to be developed.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of small transport enterprises, which are particularly difficult to assess because of the varied business profiles depending on the means of transport, the country, the type of service provided and the competitive structure of the market in which they operate. these include family businesses, smes, micro-enterprises, craft enterprises and start-ups. the report also supports new business models and calls for a clear and proportionate legal framework for small transport companies; stresses that member states should address the phenomenon of over-regulation and anti-competitive behaviour that leads to fragmentation of rules and creates difficulties for small businesses; calls for harmonisation of rules on access to regulated professions and activities, which would facilitate the development of new entities and services linked to digital platforms and the sharing economy; addresses the growing problem of the use of light commercial vehicles (lcvs) in the international transport of goods. i supported the resolution.
i supported this motion for a resolution because it fits exactly into the human rights agenda that the ep often deals with, and it is so right that we are a body that perceives and monitors the human rights situation outside the eu. the reason i have agreed to explain, and why i personally consider this report to be particularly important, is the subject of the death penalty. i have tried in my political position in the czech republic, but also here, to always engage against this inhuman punishment, which is in principle irreversible. in short, when a judicial error is committed and a death sentence is imposed, the execution of such a sentence can never be reversed. i am very pleased that in this resolution we call on belarus, and urge it directly, to stop applying the death penalty, because it is more or less the only country in europe that carries out this inhuman punishment. so it must be fought. i also agree with the other parts of the resolution, but personally i am most interested in the death penalty and i think it is important to fight against it.
mr. chairman, please! it is very good that we, as the european parliament, have adopted such a critical resolution on belarus, but it is not as clear as it should be. and somewhere in the background, we're having illusions about president lukashenko. it wasn't an election in belarus, it was a nomination. the human rights situation and the opposition situation have not changed. is the union not wrong in this matter? it seems to me that yes, and indirectly the way this election has gone, and that this election (in a figurative sense of course) is so unsatisfactory, it is our fault for two reasons. first, we lifted the sanctions too soon. if it had to be done, it was only after the elections that we got rid of the instrument of pressure. secondly, we, the west, have given loans to the international monetary fund, also removing any pressure on belarus in the sense, which i think is wrong, that something is due to belarus because it was the organizer of the so-called minsk talks on the war of russia against ukraine. we violated the "more for more" principle with belarus, because in reality they got more for less. i think that it is the european parliament that should continue to monitor the european union's critical line towards belarus.
mr. chairman, please! i rise as the author of this resolution with two comments. the first is to thank those meps who tabled various amendments that went beyond the text of the resolution, but in the end withdrew both those that softened the resolution and those that added unnecessary things to the resolution. thank you very much, because the resolution is clearer. the second point concerns the need to maintain a consistent policy towards countries such as belarus. i have the impression that sometimes the resolutions go their own way and the practice goes a little differently. it is very important to me that the consistency of this material is indeed at the highest level.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's statement on the situation in belarus and the need to adopt a joint motion for a resolution to that end. the subsequent parliamentary elections in belarus, held on 11 september 2016, were conducted in flagrant violation of the principles of democratic elections and lacked the desired transparency. although observers have noted signs of improvement in standards relating to electoral rules (easier registration, better access to the media, no mass persecution and the election of two opposition members to the 110-seat parliament), these have been facade-like and the process of electing mps has been rigged. in this case, the belarusian parliament cannot therefore be seen as representing the will of the people. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus prepared by the chair of the european parliament's delegation for relations with belarus, acknowledging its contents and its appeals. the resolution notes that changes in belarus are taking place, albeit slowly, and supports the policy of gradually ending the isolation policy. however, given the fact that the electoral procedure is still far from international standards, the resolution maintains a policy of so-called critical engagement. among the positive changes, the election of a political opposition representative and one independent candidate to the house of representatives, the opening up to election observers and the change in attitude that gives hope for legislative changes are noteworthy. belarus is the only country in europe where citizens cannot see the results of elections in their constituencies, as the published results are highly aggregated. this deprives citizens of the sense of influence on the shape of the parliament, because they do not see the effects of their local activity in the context of the elections, but also prevents the analysis of the results and the citizen control of the elections. despite these irregularities and the slowness of change, i believe that the current direction of the eu's opening up to belarus, especially in the economic area, is the right one. belarus is a potentially important partner for the eu and we should intensify dialogue and cooperation with our eastern neighbour not only in the economic field but also in human capital, education, culture and social innovation.
in writing. ‒ after more than 20 years, the belarusian opposition finally has its representatives in the parliament elected in general elections. although this should be seen more in terms of political nomination than the actual election result, we should see this gesture from the belarusian authorities. however, it cannot be overestimated and the union's response must be carefully balanced. both in the 2015 presidential election and the recent parliamentary elections in 2016, we had to deal with many irregularities. the belarusian authorities should immediately start work on a comprehensive reform of the electoral code as part of the broader process of democratisation of the state. respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental civil liberties, as well as the rehabilitation of released political prisoners, are a sine qua non for further progress in eu-belarus relations.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary elections were held in belarus on 11 september 2016. this was the first parliamentary election since the ep delegation visited belarus in 2015. in view of the geopolitical situation in the region and the difficult economic situation in belarus, it was expected that the electoral process would be more transparent than in previous elections. although there were signs of improvement, the conduct of the elections was far from democratic and transparent. on the other hand, it is also clear that president lukashenko does not want to worsen his relations with the west, which have improved significantly in the last 2-3 years. i voted for the resolution.
deputising for the author. – mr president, having electricity at home, at work, and virtually everywhere, is so obvious that we rarely give this any thought, but more than a billion people live without electricity and still more only have unreliable access. this is but one aspect of the shocking gap between living conditions in our world, but it has a number of consequences for people’s health and safety, education, well—being and chance to earn a living; for women who carry out the difficult, time—consuming and sometimes risky task of collecting firewood and have to use unhealthy and hazardous cooking methods; for the development progress – or lack thereof – of communities and countries; for the preservation of vegetation, forest and biodiversity; for local climates and for the global effort to limit climate change and handle its consequences; and of course sometimes also for peace and security, as the energy issue can spawn conflict. access to energy is a key driver of development. ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all is one of the sdgs adopted in the united nations last year. this goal should be achieved by 2030. getting there will take truly huge efforts but it is possible and necessary. how, then, should it be done? what is the eu’s contribution and what progress is being achieved with this contribution? these are the core issues of the oral question to the commission and the motion for a resolution prepared by the committee on development. our parliament has been emphasising for years that the focus should be on the small-scale production of renewable energy, local networks and off—grid solutions. such solutions produce the biggest contribution to development and are best at avoiding negative impacts on the environment. we have also seen that the regulation on the development cooperation instrument prescribes this orientation of eu development policy in the energy area. not least, we note in our scrutiny of the draft development assistance programming documents that the prescription is being followed. the potential for renewable energy production is particularly great in africa, which is also where electrification is least developed. solar and wind power generation should be expanded faster. insufficient and hazardous traditional use of biomass, such as firewood and charcoal, currently dominates africa’s energy consumption. a cautious approach to more modern types of bioenergy is necessary since such energy production can come at the cost of food production, affect land use rights, cause deforestation and degradation of land and reduce the availability of water for other purposes. energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but providing access to energy in rapidly growing cities is also a massive challenge. the unsatisfied needs are particularly extensive in africa. in fact, the number of people without electricity on this continent is increasing, while population growth is faster than the progress of electrification. climate finance provided by developed to developing countries is another important source. together with technology transfer, it also affects africa leaders’ wish to focus on renewable energy sources and industrialisation processes. in parallel with public funds, more private money must go into energy investment. public-private partnerships can be useful and the general trend in eu development policy towards providing grants, loans, subsidies and other incentives for private investment is particularly strong in the area of energy investment. the eu has recently launched an electrification financing initiative, electrifi and facilitating energy investment is also among the central aims of the european external investment plan proposed by the commission. development effectiveness principles should always be followed. the eu can be proud of the scale of its work to extend energy provision in developing countries. in the period 2014—2020 we are spending eur 3.5 billion on development assistance in the energy area. the commission proposal for a new european consensus on development rightly points to the crucial role of energy for development and in climate action. in 2012 the commission set out to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030. we are now asking the commission to tell us about the general state of progress, the main challenges encountered and the outlook for the continued implementation of development assistance in the energy area. we would also like to know what proportion of the funds engaged is going to local renewable energy projects and how we can achieve the target of eur 500 billion. i look forward to listening to the commission’s reply.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to start with a sad observation: we are talking about energy, about the possibilities of providing, above all, developing countries with better access to sources, including renewable sources, and we have only a dozen people in the room. and they're mostly speakers. unfortunately, the principle has been confirmed during this parliament session that a great many topics outside parliament's main competence come before and only afterwards or at the end of the topics that i consider to be key. but i'm also saying that the economic, financial, transportation, education, creative industries should be the mainstream. now, i'm going to move on to the main topic, the question of the day. we have two perspectives here. the first one was a short, six-year financial one. and then you have the specific amounts. three and a half billion dollars is the increase in spending on this issue that we're talking about, and 2030, which is what's associated with the paris convention and the program that's about expanding access to energy for developing countries. these two perspectives were correctly formulated in both the question and the draft resolution, so that it can be said that the question produced a good, complete, comprehensible and consistent resolution. what do i want to draw attention to? first, the need to take into account the different capacities of individual countries, those developing countries, because they are not equal. the need for different policies is so important that there are countries that can't handle it, but they can handle it, and there are countries that can't handle it because they simply don't have the capability to do so for various reasons. the second point also included in the draft resolution is the variation in the cost of electricity production depending on the sources used. i would point out that in africa alone, renewable energy is quite high, but the use of solar power, for example, is extremely low. the third element is the flexibility of the implementation process. in my estimation, the more efficiently we manage new technologies, the better we handle them, the higher the efficiency and the lower the cost of the project itself. fourthly, i would like to draw attention to the need to take account of safety, broadly defined safety, that is to say, safety relating to the production, transmission, use of the various energy sources and protection against accidents. and fifth, the use of satellite navigation systems, or satellite systems, particularly copernicus, to diagnose, to inventory, to monitor everything that has to do with energy consumption. this system that we are building in europe, the only one in the civil world, is to give us the opportunity to be more specific in certain projects, to know more and to deal with it better. i would also like to draw attention to one of the points in the resolution: the need to inform. the european public, but also the recipients of our policies, must be given more and better information, more up-to-date information, on how to carry out these tasks. i would also like to draw attention to three somewhat less important but nonetheless quite important issues related to the resolution itself. we are talking about the need to support local markets, the need to build energy production capacity from small players. and you have to remember that dispersion, urban dispersion in developing countries, also has to be considered. and the next thing is technology sharing. there are so many technologies that we can use. we have to use all of them, but what's important is we have to do better. and at the end of these 18 paragraphs of the motion for a resolution, i quote paragraph 11. it is primarily concerned with the world commission on dams' guidelines: in particular, it emphasises that the planning of any dam should be assessed in terms of five values: equity, efficiency, stakeholder decision-making, sustainability and accountability. i think the third part of that paragraph is relevant to the whole issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. electric current is defined as the orderly movement of electric charges. if mother nature has so precisely organized electricity, why is the modern world unable or unwilling to organize and sustainably provide access to electricity to all regions of the world? some countries therefore have far too much electricity, some countries have too little, and many countries have no electricity at all. almost two billion people in the world have no access to electricity, and yet we all know that the energy grid is a condition for the economic and civilized development of the world. moreover, there is a strong link between poverty and lack of access to modern electricity services. the electrification rate for the countries of central africa is only 23 percent, and 500 million africans do not have access to electricity. on the one hand, the union is undertaking an energy development initiative to provide an additional 500 million people with access to sustainable energy by 2030, and at the same time it accepts that gazprom's pipeline gas will increase to 50% of all european gas supplies by 2030, as confirmed by the agreement between the german company and russia's gazprom. so the union is not balancing access to energy, but rather allowing for an element of political influence of electricity. moreover, the union is encouraging, or even forcing, energy-rich countries to produce biofuels, which do little to improve their climate and energy policies. and the same union is limiting and putting barriers in the way of biofuel production in developing countries, where the cost of producing biofuels is much lower and it's easier. the resolution also contains a provision to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels, which is a disruptive measure for the energy policy of some eu member states, such as poland, where coal is the main source of energy. in conclusion, it is very good that the european union is committed to ensuring access to sustainable energy in developing countries, including in sub-saharan africa and, for the programme for eritrea, because this requires a sense of solidarity with all countries in the world and the ability to share the rich with the poor. migration policy considerations also require this. it would be even better if the union's policy in this area were rational and balanced, free from protectionism and not distorting the energy policies of the member states of the union. and the question can the commission present its own assessment of the global conditions for achieving sustainable development goal 7 and give an opinion on new and urgently needed actions and can it initiate and implement opinions? how close is the union to achieving its target of 500 million people with access to sustainable energy?
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (1). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at a later part-session.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the attempt to restore the funds for the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes, which had been reduced previously as a result of the financing of the so-called juncker plan, the allocation of additional funds for the erasmus+ and cosme programmes, additional funds for youth employment programmes and additional funds for intervention on agricultural markets, is noteworthy. the increase in appropriations in titles iii and iv is particularly noteworthy, as it provides an opportunity to strengthen the union's action beyond its borders to tackle the causes of migration in countries of origin and transit. however, the low level of payments for cohesion policy only €37 billion may be a concern, as 2017 will be the fourth year of implementation of the financial framework for 2014-2020. and that will mean a greater flow of bills than ever before.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank our rapporteurs, but also the slovak presidency, which has shown great openness, and the commissioner, thanks to whom - i must say this very clearly - we did not leave the chamber during the negotiations. because i think it's only because of your determination that we decided to stay. i think this is a testament to a deep belief that we really need a budget today. this budget allows us to show that we have avoided something that has happened in previous years, namely very high tensions, an atmosphere of conflict. we have reached an agreement and it is clear from the chamber that the parties are generally satisfied. i think that's a very important signal, especially today in europe, that we're showing that we're willing to compromise. secondly, this budget introduces some of the flexibility we are discussing in the long term. and it is very important that this budget allows for some mechanisms to be activated in 2017 and opens up some possibilities in the years to come. it is extremely important that we, when we were working on the 2017 budget, were de facto working on the rest of the financial perspective until 2020. i just wanted to say thank you very much for all of this.
in writing. under the agreement reached with the council, commitment appropriations should amount to eur 157,86 billion and payment appropriations to eur 134,49 billion in 2017. i am pleased that we have managed to raise an additional €500 million for the youth employment initiative (yei), which supports young people in finding work and gaining experience, and another €200 million for projects focused on employment and growth, such as cosme, the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the connecting europe facility, which funds infrastructure projects, horizon 2020, which supports research projects, and erasmus+. in addition, a package of eur 725 million will be allocated to support migration funds, including eur 28 million for unrwa to assist palestinian refugees and eur 3 million to support peace processes. it's a good result of long and difficult negotiations with the council.
in writing. – i am very glad that we have finally a budget for next year. in fact, it is very important that the eu will increase its commitments in the field of ‘competiveness for growth and jobs’. in particular, i welcome the additional eur 50 million on erasmus+ as this programme enables youth to arrange friendships with europeans from other countries, especially as very often such relationships can last for whole lives. furthermore, within this programme there will be some amount of money allocated to support of handing out free interrail tickets to all young europeans when they turn 18. such strengthening of erasmus+ means that participants will have now even more opportunities to get their first international experience and visit many beautiful places in europe. in addition, eur 500 million more for the youth employment initiative means simply better tackling unemployment in the poorest eu regions. consequently, it is crucial that in light of the wave of euroscepticism spreading across the continent, the eu increases expenditure on activities leading to creation of jobs and the development of a common european identity in a young generation.
in writing. the adoption of a common text of the eu budget for 2017 in the framework of the procedure is undoubtedly a positive signal for the ability of the eu institutions to reach a common position on this key issue. the creation of jobs and the stimulation of economic growth remain our top priorities. this will include an increase of up to eur 200 million in funding for erasmus+, research, infrastructure and support for smes. we are certainly heading in the right direction in this case. however, i would also like to mention other programmes such as creative europe and europe for citizens, which are also strategic investments in human capital. i stress that adequate funding is a prerequisite for effective implementation and measurable results. i would also point out that the macroeconomic environment in the eu affects the ability of the member states to meet their funding commitments to the eu institutions and bodies and thus, as we well know, the ability of the eu to continue to implement eu policies. i would therefore stress that our expectations must be realistic and take account of the current macroeconomic situation, but we cannot stop raising awareness among policy-makers and citizens about the role of investing in culture and education in stimulating economic growth and job creation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, minister, i have to go. there is a fundamental difference between the previous debate and this one. in the last debate we made it clear that we had come together to the end of an action, that is to say, we had reached a certain goal. we are still in the process of achieving our objective in this debate, we are still in the final stages, and therefore the tone of our debate is also a little different. i would like to stress that when the european parliament drew up this perspective, it made it clear that it would have to be checked at midterm whether it was really well constructed. there's a review, a review, and if it turns out to be necessary, there's going to be a review. we are very pleased that despite the initial negative reactions to our revision proposals, both the commission has prepared its revision proposal and the council, the slovak presidency, has taken up the matter and agreed that the multiannual perspective needs to be revised. what do you mean, it needs to be revised? it requires change. if it requires change, it's a matter of approach to what needs to be changed. some essential elements have already been introduced in the 2017 budget. they opened up some activities and now we have to go a step further and actually improve or change the financial perspective for the next years as we agreed in the 2017 budget. the european parliament, as rapporteur, greatly appreciates the efforts of the slovak presidency to develop a unified position in the council on the multiannual perspective and revision. we also very much appreciate the contribution of the european commission in making this proposal relevant, interesting and indeed acceptable. at the same time, however, i would like to say that the european parliament is following the dynamics of what is happening in the council with great attention. we see what's happening with the italian protest. we have information from the italian government that the italian government expects the presidency to conduct such talks so that the revision is more ambitious, so that the revision actually indicates greater flexibility, greater possibilities for flexibility in the coming years. if so, we understand that the council's proposal is not yet ready and that work is under way. today we are not at the stage of agreeing or not agreeing because we understand that the situation in the council is still dynamic. we accept that and we go through the process accordingly. the european parliament therefore expects further talks, which also coincide with those with the italian government. we would also like to point out that the european parliament will certainly point to the need to strengthen the elements of flexibility, in particular the flexibility of the eu budget, the flexibility instrument, the reserve for emergency aid, the global commitment margin and the recycling of unused cancellations of commitments. on this point, it seems that we agree in part with the expectations of the italian government. we expect the slovak presidency to be open and to have talks aimed at reaching an agreement so that we in parliament can, in accordance with the conciliation procedure, finally approve or confirm our position. we expect the slovak presidency to be open to further talks.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on the review of the multiannual financial framework, i would like to welcome the compromise which is emerging in the council on this matter and express the hope that italy will also join it following the decision in the referendum on sunday. the agreement on the increase in expenditure under headings 3 and 4 is particularly noteworthy, as it provides an opportunity to strengthen the union's action beyond its borders in order to eliminate the causes of migration in countries of origin and transit and to protect the union's external borders more effectively than before. the union should abandon the curious quota scheme for immigrants, which was implemented by only 3% during the year, and oblige the member states to support from their national budgets, in accordance with their economic potential, the eu's policy of helping immigrants in countries of origin and transit. however, they are concerned about the significant delays in the implementation of union programmes, as reflected in the amending budget number four for 2016, which could lead to a new payment crisis, as was the case at the end of the implementation of the previous financial perspective.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his great work and i would like to support his recommendation to give consent to this agreement, which opens up the door to its provisional application. west africa is our largest trade partner in sub-saharan africa. at the same time, the european union contributes to economic growth and development in the region and is the main export market for west african agriculture and fisheries products. the deal on the stepping stone economic partnership agreement with ghana and ivory coast ensures a contractual safety net warranting a duty-free quota, free access to the eu market, and asymmetric gradual opening of ghana’s market to eu goods until the regional agreement comes into force. moreover, the interim agreement includes provisions on development cooperation, trade defence and trade facilitation measures including sanitary and phytosanitary measures. furthermore i wish to call for swift implementation of this economic partnership agreement. if it comes into place without excessive delay, any discrepancies in tariff liberalisation schedules and tariff lines would be solved without any need for additional adaptation to the regional processes, which is highly advisable.
the economic partnership agreement that we're talking about today, but also in a broader sense the trade agreements, the free trade agreements, the services agreements, the investment agreements, these are examples of how well developed countries -- rich countries, like the member states of the european union -- can cooperate with other poorer countries, not just in economic terms, not just to make these kinds of agreements to increase trade, but also to support the development of their partners. ghana like many other countries is a country that particularly deserves the support of the european union. it is one of the best performing countries in africa, not only economically but also socially, respecting the african context civil society, caring about the principles of democracy. i hope we will see this again soon, in the elections in this country. the agreement we are talking about is certainly not ideal, because it is a certain solution, and it is temporary, but if we accept it and implement it, it will certainly be a good element of cooperation between the european union and ghana, and in the future west africa.
i am a strong supporter of this agreement and i am convinced by the arguments of commissioner jourová, who points out that the level of protection in the existing bilateral agreements is lower than in the agreement we will be adopting on behalf of the european union. it's a new balance between efficiency and privacy. whenever we debate privacy, we get radical descriptions from the far left and the alde, but the world is so structured that radicalism is usually the enemy of the good. you interpret the state's core values, privacy, so broadly that it would make it impossible to do anything to effectively protect the security of europeans. and finally, i'm not a trump fan, but insulting the president of the united states is a show of bad diplomacy. i don't think anyone would want the americans to talk about the president of the european parliament or the prime minister of the netherlands in that way, so he's calling for more diplomacy.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we must first of all realize that the construction of large databases of citizens is objectively part of a system of totalitarian control over citizens. it is an oppressive provision. such repressive legislation should operate in such a way that there are as few such acts as possible, not as many as possible. each state should be able to limit such procedures to cases which are necessary in that state. we should not create universal standards, lest we extend these procedures to other countries that do not want such totalitarian control to some extent. this law is not so bad, although the rapporteur member pointed out many errors and absurdities in the law and then inexplicably recommended its adoption. they must be rejected and better solutions proposed. they're easy to edit.
in writing. i support the report by mr albrecht and therefore agree to the conclusion of the 'umbrella agreement' between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. the agreement is particularly important in the context of efforts to combat terrorism. the envisaged agreement provides a framework for the protection of personal data, which contributes to legal certainty. the agreement will, where necessary, complement data protection safeguards in existing and future data transfer agreements or in national legislation allowing such transfers. in addition, the agreement will have a significant impact on police and law enforcement cooperation between the european union and its member states and the united states by establishing a common and comprehensive framework of data protection principles and safeguards. the agreement will allow law enforcement agencies in the eu or its member states, on the one hand, and in the us, on the other, to cooperate more effectively. the establishment of common standards in this area of cooperation can make a significant contribution to rebuilding trust in the field of transatlantic data flows. the agreement will strengthen eu-us cooperation while ensuring a high level of data protection. this is particularly important given the enormous challenges facing the eu and the us.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! the internet is a global tool. the end of the process of the us government handing over the domain and ip system's sorting functions to the international community is the confirmation of this fact from the administrative side. the intentions of this process are, of course, all very good, but can we be sure that global control will be more effective than it has been? is it possible in the long run to develop universal standards for the basic principles of the internet, when we could not even agree on human rights? it's hard to believe that non-democratic regimes and private corporations won't use their influence to use this change to strengthen their control over the network. such a scenario would, of course, be extremely dangerous for all of us. so we need to talk to our partners in the international community and seek agreement on common rules for internet governance.
madam president, the internet is a global common resource and a springboard to economic, scientific and social development. the eu has to contribute actively to the evolving model of internet governance. parliament has been committed to making the governance transparent and inclusive. we welcomed the transfer of supervision over the internet assigned numbers authority to the multi-stakeholder communities. this will help us keep the internet open and safe. moreover, the internet governance forum must remain high on the agenda of the eu institutions and the member states. next week the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) will once again lead the european parliament delegation to the forum’s meeting in mexico. the european perspective must be communicated globally for the sake of our industry, business and citizens, especially citizens of course. three preconditions are necessary: global efforts to improve access all over the world to the internet, joint strategies for raising the security of critical infrastructure, which is very important in times of so many hybrid threats, and ensuring internet communication for our citizens and companies, especially small and medium enterprises. that is a priority for us.
in writing. the upcoming internet governance forum is not only a major global event, but also an important element of cooperation between the european union and mexico. i would like to draw your attention to this aspect as a member of the delegation for relations with mexico and as a member of the european parliament delegation to the stoa for this event. mexico, because of its scientific and technological potential, is an attractive partner for us. from the beginning, our collaboration has been intense and events like the internet governance forum have deepened it even more. it is worth noting joint european-mexican projects such as the leadership project, which promoted dialogue between the union and latin american countries in the field of cooperation on ict. the project has resulted in the establishment of a special expert group, which is a permanent mechanism to support dialogue. i hope that events like the internet forum will produce similar useful initiatives. the upcoming forum is also a great opportunity to talk about the impact of digitalisation on the labour market. the exchange of good practices on new forms of work through digital platforms can be of particular interest. in europe, we have not yet found the perfect solution to combine flexibility with worker safety. that's why this forum can be an excellent source of information.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund although financed outside the eu budget is an important instrument for the joint response of member states in the event of major disasters or natural disasters. the fund has so far mobilised eur 3.8 billion in response to over 70 disasters, in almost all eu countries. it is therefore a clear symbol of eu solidarity in difficult times. i welcome the recent reform of the fund's rules of operation, which simplified the procedures for applying for aid and introduced the possibility of paying advances. however, in the interest of rapidity, the commission should consider raising the threshold for advance payments and shortening the time limits for examining applications. effective assistance to victims of natural disasters also requires better coordination at member state level and improvements in their emergency procedures. in future discussions on the eu solidarity fund, the widest possible use of its resources to assist member states affected by terrorist attacks and to prevent such threats should also be considered. in such a case, the treaty's solidarity clause obliges the union and its member states to act together, using all the instruments at their disposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the most important thing is that we are convinced today of one thing: that the european parliament and the european commission are on the same side on this issue. we are not against the commission. the commission is not against parliament. we must ensure that the good name of the european institutions, and of the people who work in them, does not undermine citizens' trust in the european union. and then we'll definitely reach the goal that gräßle mentioned, and that durand talked about. why is the judiciary committee so keen on these changes? we are responsible for carrying out a small investigation at the outset, when the college of commissioners is being set up, even though we are not the prosecutor's office or the court, to see whether everything in the financial statements is in fact true and whether there is no conflict of interest. we do not have the instruments as the legal affairs committee to be really sure that we have checked what we can check. so, these are our requests to streamline the verification process so that we can be successful together. the members of the college of commissioners are the highest officials in the european union. if there is any uncertainty, if there are any issues that could lead to a scandal, it is not the sole responsibility of the individual commissioner or the college of commissioners. it is a stone thrown into the calm waters of the european union as a whole. and we do not want to disturb this lake, we want it to be calm so that we can work together for the good of the citizens of the european union.
madam president! the french council of state has upheld the decision of the high audiovisual council to deny the rights to a social media ad where children with down syndrome laugh, talk about themselves, show how they live. both institutions recognized that the unceremonious telling of these children about their right to life, the joy of life, could hurt women who had made, and i quote, another legal choice, in short, who had not allowed other similar children to be born. this decision to deem it inappropriate, because of the reactions it elicits, for children with down syndrome to be in public spaces is a disgusting act of discrimination that makes these people lepers of the 21st century. i look forward to hearing the views of all the representatives of the european union authorities who speak of their own motion on non-discrimination issues.
madam president, i would like to use this space to address the commission representative and the council representative and to comment on the point discussed yesterday by the imco committee, namely the trialogue on the arms control and procurement directive. we learned yesterday that it will be a political endeavour to conclude these negotiations under the slovak presidency by the end of this year. i wanted to call on the representatives of the authorities participating in the trialogue not to really take it as a political task to end the negotiations on the directive quickly at any cost, which (at least in the czech republic) is causing extraordinary emotions, is perceived extremely negatively by all legal gun owners. and that the relevant authorities of the trialogue really discuss the whole thing in detail and deal with the things that are causing problems in practice. and that's the issue of deactivating weapons and the issue of converting weapons. so please, commissioner, consider this subject as extremely politically sensitive and let us not make it our political task to end the negotiations at any cost, but let us deal with the results of the negotiations.
after the adoption of the resolution on the accession of the union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women at the last strasbourg session, i have a proposal, and even an appeal, to the european institute for gender equality to investigate the situation of migrant women in refugee camps in europe, where, according to humanitarian institutions, violence against women, especially christian women, is taking place. but muslim women are also treated as objects, where husbands give them to other men in exchange for a suitable payment. the un data, which is from last year, shows that 75 percent of the migrants are young men, and the rest are families with children, as if there were no women in the families. or they're not even detectable by research organizations. unfortunately, i couldn't find any report on the institute's website.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i was very interested in what you said about starting the fight against homophobia and similar phenomena in the european parliament and in the politics of democratic european states. i'd like to understand how you see it. for example, should the european commission get involved in elections in other countries, should we fund the preferred parties that should win elections, or perhaps it is best to delegitimize certain lists. perhaps it's a good way to eliminate from public life the phenomena you warn against.
i don't want to be in the debate. i just want to point out that there's only a five-minute difference between the 12 nominations and the seven votes cast, so with such an important debate on the public good, freedom of speech, it's really worth using the nomination process in the room and doing it in its entirety, if there are only 12 nominations.
mr president, madam representative, i would like to thank you for your service. president kabila has been using all possible technical and administrative means for two years to remain in power after the expiry of his constitutional mandate, at any cost. on the basis of an agreement with part of the opposition, the presidential elections were postponed to april 2018. his actions have led to political tensions, civil unrest, human rights violations, and everyone knows it. there is a ban on assembly in congo, including the use of force against peaceful protesters, arrests and restrictions on media freedom. clear action must be taken to ensure respect for the constitution and to guarantee democratic, transparent and timely elections as soon as possible. it is important that the political actors involved in this process contribute to a peaceful and constructive dialogue in order to avoid a deepening of the current political crisis and to stem the tide of violence. this resolution is certainly an important political signal, and it is therefore essential that it be supported by the whole of parliament.
the recent mourning statements by president juncker in recent days have provoked a great deal of protest in this chamber. of course i'm in solidarity with them. given that we have a saying "de mortuis nihil nisi bonum", i think that especially today, in these days when a dictator is so universally praised, we should observe a minute of silence for the thousands of victims of cuban communism. and i would ask the president to call for a minute's silence so that we can remember those people who have either suffered under repression or have simply had their lives cut short by the tyranny they have had to live under.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 establishing the union customs code (ucc). i believe that amending article 136 of the ukc will ensure equal treatment of goods. the report submitted is not controversial and is a technical report, the sole purpose of which is to amend article 136. the reason for my decision is also to provide a legal basis for the action of the customs authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the full entry into force on 1 may 2016 of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 laying down the union customs code (the 'code') and related delegated and implementing acts has revealed certain deficiencies in its drafting. the current proposal to amend article 136 of the ucc aims to remove this obstacle, thereby guaranteeing equal treatment of goods and restoring the legal basis that existed in the old version of the customs code. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal is technical. it introduces amendments which aim to correct errors and thus guarantee equal treatment of goods and to re-establish the legal basis which existed in the old version of the customs code. i thought it was right to introduce these amendments and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the report containing key information on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products with regard to its date of application. i see positive aspects of the proposed changes to regulatory technical standards (rts) in the report from the european securities and markets authority (esma). the 12-month implementation period will allow for the resolution of the risk determination issues for the collective investment product and the insurance-based investment product (priip), the withdrawal of the exemption granted under ucits for multi-option investment products and the presentation of transaction costs.
in writing. ‒ the report follows the parliament's rejection of a regulatory technical standard (rts) proposed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the commission to produce a key information document (kid) accompanying retail collective investment products and insurance-based investment products (priips). in order to provide the commission and esma with sufficient time to modify the technical standard, a 12-month implementation delay period was proposed. the change is expected in particular in three areas: the assignment of risk classes to the priip issuer, the withdrawal of the exemption under the ucits directive for multiple investment products and the presentation of transaction costs. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the european union and the republic of kiribati. i consider it to be an important achievement in the process of deepening the relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati. the visa waiver agreement can have positive effects by simplifying the conditions for business travel, facilitating investment and tourism. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to benefit fully and concretely from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it through the possibility of travel at lower cost and with simplified administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement aims to provide citizens of the contracting parties (eu and above) with visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the five countries and to increase the eu's leverage, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal, as these countries have small populations. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements. i hereby endorse the agreement
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement in question aims to provide citizens of the republic of kiribati with visa-free travel from the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the country and to increase cooperation with the eu, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal given the small population of the republic of kiribati, which is why i supported the proposed agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the solomon islands. i consider that this agreement is the concrete outcome of the process of deepening relations between the european union and the solomon islands, which is of great political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and at the same time it is a complementary measure enabling closer economic and cultural relations and intensified political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union's trade relations with the solomon islands are very limited, but this gives them the potential to develop. the visa waiver agreement confirms the european union's commitment to strengthening its partnership with the country.
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement aims to provide citizens of the contracting parties (eu and above) with visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the five countries and to increase the eu's leverage, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal, as these countries have small populations. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements. i hereby endorse the agreement
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement in question aims to provide solomon islands citizens with visa-free travel from the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the country and to increase cooperation with the eu, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal given the small population of the solomon islands, which is why i supported the proposed agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the initiative for an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. i am convinced that the initiative is a concrete outcome of the process of deepening the relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and at the same time a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement can have positive effects by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and boosting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement aims to provide citizens of the contracting parties (eu and above) with visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the five countries and to increase the eu's leverage, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal, as these countries have small populations. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements. i hereby endorse the agreement
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement in question aims to provide micronesian citizens with visa-free travel from the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the country and to increase cooperation with the eu, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal given the small population of micronesia, which is why i supported the proposed agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the initiative for an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the european union and tuvalu. i believe that this is an expression of the strengthening of relations between the european union and tuvalu, as governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the european union and its member states. the commitment to abolish short-stay visas is an important milestone in the process of deepening relations between the european union and tuvalu. it is of major political importance within the cotonou agreement and is also a complementary measure to enable closer economic and cultural relations and intensified political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement aims to provide citizens of the contracting parties (eu and above) with visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the five countries and to increase the eu's leverage, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal, as these countries have small populations. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements. i hereby enter into the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the visa facilitation agreement in question aims to provide tuvaluan citizens with visa-free travel from the eu for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime would cover all categories of persons. the agreement is expected to have positive economic effects for the country and to increase cooperation with the eu, especially in the area of human rights. the impact on the eu is likely to be minimal given the small population of tuvalu, which is why i supported the proposed agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the initiative for an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands. i consider it to be a concrete achievement in the process of deepening the relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and at the same time it is a complementary measure to enable closer economic and cultural relations and intensified political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. recognising the mutual benefits for both the eu and the member states and for the republic of the marshall islands, i am in favour of giving my consent to the conclusion of such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ i believe that first of all we need to put more emphasis on building economic, cultural and social links with the citizens of the republic of the marshall islands. once we reach a certain threshold in our relations, we can consider an agreement between the eu and that country, which is why i gave a negative opinion on that agreement.
in writing. ‒ recognising the need to make aid available to countries affected by natural disasters, i voted in favour of the evaluation report on the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the fund, established in 2002, is a direct expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. the amendment and review of the regulation is important for the effective response to beneficiaries and for the more efficient handling of applications from disaster-affected countries. in times of disaster, the state and its citizens need help quickly and efficiently. the establishment of this fund is undoubtedly justified. i believe that efforts to strengthen the strategy in this area should be multiplied.
in writing. ‒ through the eu solidarity fund (eusf), the european union is providing effective support to member states or eu candidate countries in their response to natural disasters. we allocate up to eur 500 million per year from this fund to supplement public expenditure incurred by the state or member states in connection with emergency operations. the eusf shall provide assistance where the total direct damage caused by a natural disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of the gross national income of the country concerned. the evaluation report on the european union solidarity fund adopted this week highlights the need for rapid intervention by the eusf, the need for a policy of prevention of overlapping with other european instruments, especially cohesion policy, and for effective cooperation at national level with regional or local authorities. in this context, given that the speed of processing applications in the event of natural disasters is of the utmost importance, the rapporteur has rightly proposed a timeframe not exceeding 12 weeks from the submission of the complete dossier . in addition, it is proposed to introduce greater transparency, in particular as regards the various resources allocated to the compensation of damage caused by such a disaster.
in writing. ‒ following the tragic floods in 2002, the european union established the european union solidarity fund (regulation (ec) no 2012/2002). it is a direct expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. it is intended not only for the member states but also for the countries applying for eu membership. in 2014, the original regulation was amended to respond more effectively to the concerns of beneficiaries and to expedite the processing of applications from disaster-affected countries and to include drought in the list of regulated disasters (regulation (eu) no 661/2014). in october 2015, the european commission presented a report on the use of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for 2014. the 'collective regulation' proposed by the commission on 14 september provides for a new revision of the fund to improve the speed and efficiency of the system for financing emergency operations. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was established in response to the catastrophic floods that occurred in central europe in the summer of 2012. this instrument enables the union to respond to major natural disasters and exceptional regional disasters within the community and in countries negotiating accession to the community. in 2014, the fund underwent a major reform to streamline and simplify procedures and ensure a faster response to a disaster, even within 6 weeks of the application. unfortunately, since the creation of the fund, the frequency of natural disasters has increased significantly, with serious consequences for societies. i therefore believe that this instrument should be considerably strengthened in the coming years. it is also necessary to further simplify the procedure for receiving advances and paying the final amount, as well as to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the allocation, management and implementation of the fund. the eu solidarity fund debate is also a good opportunity to recall the member states' obligation to invest in disaster prevention. such actions may be financed, inter alia, under the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ in principle, member states should act in solidarity to deal with natural disasters worldwide. it is important that aid is effectively directed both to member states and to countries that inspire confidence in the proper use of funds. another important issue is the amount of aid. for eu policy to be effective, the amount of aid to the countries that need it most and are entitled to it should be increased. the report adopted in this version raises the concern that these issues will not be properly organised, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidary fund (eusf) has mobilised in total eur 3.8 billion in connection with more than 70 disasters. against this background, disasters in romania and france, which caused serious damages in 2014, were considered to be illegible for eusf funding. this why the new regulation from 2014 made some clarification of the rules on the eligibility of regional natural disasters setting a threshold at 1.5% of regional gdp together with the possibility of making advance payments of up to 10% of the likely amount of aid. in addition, a six-week deadline by which the commission must respond to applications has been introduced. nevertheless, i agree with rapporteur that if we really want to stop victims feeling abandoned between emergency intervention and the arrival of eusf funds, further reforms are needed. therefore, we should increase the advance payments threshold from 10 to 15%, shorten the deadlines for processing the applications from six weeks to four weeks and allow for a single application to be submitted jointly by several eligible states at cross-border level. taking the above into account, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund because i agree with the positive assessment of its functioning. the fund is one of the most concrete and measurable forms of support that the european union can provide to local communities in the event of disasters and natural disasters. in addition to addressing the consequences of these phenomena, the fund should also be used for preventive purposes, which will allow the losses incurred to be minimised. it is also necessary to fully control and improve the transparency of the use of the fund's resources. the court of auditors, whose audits have so far revealed irregularities, has an important role to play in this respect, but so do the member states, whose final accounts of the use made of the aid received should be made public and generally available. i voted in favour of the resolution because it not only confirms the many advantages of the functioning of the fund but also points out the issues which, if resolved, will improve its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the united states of america and the eu on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. i believe that the provisions of the agreement contribute to building a security system, strengthening the detection and deterrence of crime and facilitating investigations. the agreement facilitates the prevention of terrorist activities by the relevant authorities. the important aspect here is that the contract itself does not provide a legal basis for the transfer of personal data, but only adds a layer of privacy protection to personal data transferred under other contracts. the agreement also contains provisions on procedures to be followed in the event of interference with basic data. i think this deal will help increase security.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for additional protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences, including terrorism. the contract itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data, but only enhances the privacy protection of personal data transferred under other contracts. this agreement contains provisions setting out several basic data protection principles, namely the purpose and limitations of use, the quality and integrity of data, provisions on onward transfer, provisions on collective transfer and the right to legal redress. the united states has also provided the united states with a number of other legal instruments to facilitate the enforcement of the law. the agreement represents a significant step forward in the protection of personal data transferred between the eu and the us, without hampering the work of law enforcement and intelligence agencies. it will be subject to regular monitoring and review, the results of which will be made publicly available. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the decision to sign a data protection agreement between the us and the eu is a very important step towards ensuring the comprehensive protection of our data, while respecting high privacy standards. the agreement with the united states covers all transfers of data such as names, addresses or criminal records. the transfer of such information shall be aimed at supporting the fight against transnational crime, including the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of cross-border crime, including terrorism. until now, such data have been transferred to us law enforcement authorities on the basis of bilateral agreements between the eu member states and the us. but they were not protected. with the agreement, this situation will be completely changed. data transferred to the us for the purpose of fighting crime will be protected in the same way as in europe. the same appeal procedures and control procedures as in the union will also apply. the agreement does not cover the exchange of data between national safety authorities, as such exchange is not within the competence of the union. nor does it cover transatlantic data transfers between private entities.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for additional protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences, including terrorism. it contains provisions setting out several basic data protection principles, including data transfer rules, rules on transfers and the right of an entity to legal redress. the agreement represents a significant step forward in the protection of personal data transferred between the eu and the us, without hampering the work of law enforcement and intelligence agencies. that's why i voted for the deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provisional agreement on an economic partnership between the european union and ghana. i think it is important to work together with our economic partners to ensure the best possible economic growth. the cooperation undertaken within this partnership guarantees security in maintaining duty-free access to the eu market. support for a regional partnership may eventually lead to the signature of the agreement by other countries in the west african region. it is important to seek the replacement of transitional provisions by definitive ones, which will contribute in particular to strengthening the partnership.
in writing. ‒ in august 2016, ghana (and subsequently côte d'ivoire) decided to proceed with the ratification of the 2007 preliminary economic partnership agreement with the european union, as the signature of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa) requires additional time. the agreement guarantees a contractual safeguard system, ensuring continued full duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market until the epa regional agreement is finally signed by all countries in this west african region. the interim agreement provides for provisional application and will be replaced in full by the epa concluded at regional level on the date of entry into force of the agreement. i have hereby endorsed the preliminary economic partnership agreement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the agreement guarantees a working backstop, ensuring that partners continue to have full access to the eu market without tariffs and quotas until the regional agreement is finally signed by all countries in this west african region. the interim agreement provides for provisional application and will be replaced in full by an agreement concluded at regional level on the date of entry into force of the agreement. that's why i backed the preliminary agreement.
in writing. ‒ addressing migration and refugees and enhancing the internal security of the union is a highly important issue, which requires not only significant resources but also human resources. however, i believe that in every area of the european union's workings, resources must be managed rationally and efficiently, and solutions must be sought which do not increase expenditure but give the opportunity to achieve the objectives pursued. so, after having analysed all aspects of the document, i voted against because i believe that even greater efficiency can be achieved within the existing measures to address or even out the costs of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ due to the need to take account of the changing situation requiring updating of appropriations, i voted in favour of adopting draft amending budget no 4 to the general budget for 2016. in view of the migration and refugee crisis, the reduction in payment appropriations due to the slow implementation of regional policy programmes, there is a need for updates and adjustments. the proposed update provides a detailed description of the mechanisms involved in the shifts and proposes specific compensation for losses.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget covers a number of items, including the update of appropriations in the context of the migration and refugee crisis, as well as the annual update of revenue appropriations. i supported the above resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of draft amending budget (dab) no 5 to the general budget for 2016 implementation of decision on own resources no 2014/335/eu. the draft budget was endorsed by the committee on budgets. it shall contain accurate data for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the ppa is predominantly a very complex document of a technical nature. the commission notes that the 2014 decision granted a gross reduction of the annual gni-based contributions for denmark, the netherlands, sweden and austria for the years 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2016 concerns the implementation of the new own resources decision (2014/335/eu) after the completion of the ratification process on 1 october 2016. oj l 5/2016 provides for the application of that decision retroactively from 1 january 2014 and consequently includes adjustments relating to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the commission notes that the 2014 decision does not provide for a reduction of the gross annual gni-based contributions of denmark, the netherlands, sweden and austria for the years 2014-2020. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital increase of eur [...] million. the pbk also includes changes in the uk rebate for 2014 and 2015. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2016 concerns the implementation of the new own resources decision following the completion of the ratification process of the document on 1 october 2016. oj l 5/2016 provides for the application of that decision retroactively from 1 january 2014 and consequently includes adjustments relating to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the commission notes that the 2014 decision does not provide for a reduction of the gross annual contributions of denmark, the netherlands, sweden and austria based on the dutch data for the years 2014-2020. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital increase of eur [...] million. the pbk also covers changes in the uk rebate for 2014 and 2015, which is why i voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ in view of the merits of the proposal, i voted in favour of adopting draft amending budget no 6 to the general budget for 2016, accompanied by the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, in accordance with the financial assistance guarantees for countries affected by major natural disasters or exceptional disasters in individual regions. germany fulfils all the formal conditions for receiving such aid. the 2016 eusf assistance relates to the floods in lower bavaria. the disaster caused damage to public and private infrastructure, homes and agricultural sectors. in the grounds for the request, the percentage of damage exceeds the threshold required to qualify the effects as a 'regional disaster'.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund was established in 2002 to provide financial support to countries affected by major natural disasters or exceptional disasters in their regions. the proposal guarantees eur 31 475 125 in commitments and payment appropriations to cover the consequences of major floods which have caused damage to public and private infrastructure, homes and damage to the agricultural sector. the damage represents 3,03% of regional gdp, which is above the threshold required to apply for aid under the regional disaster scheme. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund (fsue) was established in 2002 to provide financial support to countries affected by major natural disasters or exceptional disasters in their regions. this is the second eusf proposal in 2016 and it relates to the floods in lower bavaria, germany. the proposal guarantees eur 31 475 125 in commitments and payment appropriations to cover the consequences of major floods which have caused damage to public and private infrastructure, homes and damage to the agricultural sector. the damage amounts to 3,03% of regional gdp, exceeding the threshold required to be claimed under 'regional disaster'. preliminary draft amending budget no 6 provides for the financing of this proposal. given the serious impact on the situation in the region, i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund was established in 2002 to provide financial support to countries affected by major natural disasters or exceptional disasters in their regions. the proposal guarantees eur 31 475 125 in commitments and payment appropriations to cover the consequences of major floods which have caused damage to public and private infrastructure, homes and damage to the agricultural sector. the damage amounts to 3,03% of regional gdp, exceeding the threshold required to be claimed under 'regional disaster'. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am aware that additional financial needs are likely to arise in 2017 as a result of the internal security crisis and the challenges related to the current humanitarian situation, migration and refugees. however, i believe that in every area of the european union's operation, resources must be managed rationally and efficiently, and solutions must be sought which, without increasing spending, will give us a chance of achieving the objectives we have set. therefore, after having examined all aspects of the document, i voted against, because i am convinced that within the existing measures, even greater efficiency can be achieved in order to solve or even out the costs of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation allows for the mobilisation of a contingency margin of up to 0.03% of gross national income in the eu-28. the contingency margin shall be considered as an instrument to be used as a last resort, in response to contingencies, only when all other funding avenues have been exhausted. i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ throughout the assistance procedure, there are a number of instruments designed to help the member state in the event of unforeseen events. there is no need to create another road, which could create the risk of unjustified expenditure, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ given the current situation of the european union in the area of migration crisis management, it seems reasonable to propose the mobilisation of, inter alia, the flexibility instrument under title 3 of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017 in the amount of eur 530 million. however, it should be made clear that budgetary flexibility has its limits and can only be a short-term solution for unforeseen events. the main argument for this is that the financial impact of the current internal security crises, as well as the humanitarian and migration challenges, were not taken into account when the current mff was adopted in 2013. i welcomed the commission's proposal in the context of the mff mid-term review to increase budgetary capacity to respond quickly and appropriately to unforeseen events. at the same time, it should be recalled that the fair and transparent allocation of financial resources to the specific objectives of the asylum, migration and integration fund (the fund) was a priority of parliament during the negotiations leading to the adoption of regulation (eu) no 516/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (1) establishing the fund. with that in mind, i voted to pass the bill.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) provides for the possibility of triggering the flexibility instrument to finance expenditure above the ceilings available under one or more mff headings. the european commission proposes to mobilise eur 530 million under this flexibility instrument in 2017 to support measures related to the migration and refugee crisis. this is the maximum amount that can be mobilised under this instrument in 2017, which partly explains why the commission wishes to establish a contingency margin in a separate proposal. it is aware of the exceptional nature of the migration and refugee crisis and has so far supported the use of the flexibility instrument for this purpose. however, i am concerned that the full amount is to be mobilised as early as early 2017, as this leaves little room for manoeuvre for the rest of the year.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 mff regulation provides for the possibility of mobilising the flexibility instrument to finance expenditure above the ceilings available under one or more headings of the mff. however, in my view, the fact that the full amount is being mobilised at the very beginning of 2017 is very worrying. this decision will leave little room for manoeuvre for the rest of the year, and that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide funds for the payment of advances in the general budget of the union for 2017. the eusf regulation allows the commission to mobilise eur 50 million in the draft general budget for the payment of advances for the following year. the mobilisation of these resources ensures that funds are rapidly made available in the event of natural disasters. the assistance shall consist of the provision of immediate budgetary support to respond to natural disasters. at the same time, beneficiaries are able to provide more effective assistance to citizens who are affected.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established in 2002 to provide financial assistance to countries affected by major natural disasters and exceptional regional disasters. article 4a of the provisions accompanying the establishment of this instrument allows the commission to propose the european union solidarity fund of eur 50 million in the draft general budget for the payment of advances for the following year. the commission has proposed to mobilise the eusf in may 2016 for a total amount of eur 50 million for commitments and payments to pay member states advances that can be used quickly and efficiently in the event of disasters and emergencies that may occur in 2017. i supported the proposal because it provides budget support for immediate response to natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was established to provide financial assistance to countries affected by major natural disasters and exceptional regional disasters. the commission proposed to mobilise the eu structural funds for a total of eur 50 million for commitments and payments in may 2016 to pay member states advances that can be used quickly and efficiently in the event of disasters and natural disasters that may occur in 2017. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the joint text on the budgetary procedure for 2017 because it ensures a balance between the implementation of current eu programmes and the provision of funds for new challenges. the budget has secured the amount for poland that has been earmarked for payments under the cohesion fund, which means that poland has succeeded in negotiating. the budget provides for the financing of the protection of the external borders and security in the eu in accordance with poland's demands. the 2017 budget reinforces the eu's actions beyond its borders to tackle the root causes of migration in countries of origin and transit, while supporting more strongly actions towards the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budget because europe faces many challenges today that cannot be met without adequate financial means. if we are serious about tackling the migration crisis, boosting economic growth and eliminating high levels of youth unemployment, we need a flexible eu budget. the budget we passed today is not perfect, but it's a step in the right direction. we have managed to allocate an additional eur 500 million to the youth employment initiative, which is a priority for the s&d group. this will provide millions of young europeans with the opportunity to continue their education, training or get their first job. in addition, eur 150 million will be allocated to programmes to stimulate research and innovation (horizon 2020) and support small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), as well as to help finance cross-border infrastructure projects (connecting europe). the european commission has also increased funding for the erasmus+ programme, which helps young people study and work in different member states, by €50 million.
in writing. ‒ on 26 october, parliament voted on its position on the eu budget for 2017. after parliament had taken account of the council's amendments, a conciliation committee was set up, composed of representatives of the three institutions, and given 21 days to adopt a joint text. this 21-day period started the day after the vote in plenary and ended on 17 november. the parliament called for an increase of eur 4.07 billion in net appropriations for commitments and eur 2.45 billion in payments compared with the commission's proposal. this means that the amount for commitments will be close to eur 160.7 billion and for payments eur 136.7 billion. the council's amendments to the commission's proposal amounted to eur 155.8 billion for commitments and eur 133.4 billion for payments. on 16 november, the conciliation committee set the 2017 budget at eur 157,86 billion in commitments (an increase of 1,7% compared to 2016) and eur 134,5 billion in payments (a decrease of 1,6%). the council agreed to an additional eur 200 million for 'horizon 2020', cosme, 'connecting europe' and erasmus+. an additional eur 500 million was also allocated to the youth employment initiative. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's position entails an increase in net appropriations for commitments of eur 4.07 billion and for payments of eur 2.45 billion compared to the commission's proposal. this means that the amount for commitments will be close to eur 160.7 billion and for payments eur 136.7 billion. the council's amendments to the commission's proposal amounted to eur 155.8 billion for commitments and eur 133.4 billion for payments. the commission argued that the council's cuts would jeopardise the implementation of a number of eu programmes. the procedure itself was well prepared, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ in the last few months, italy has been hit by a series of very devastating earthquakes, in which 400 people have been injured and 290 have lost their lives. in the short time following these events, over 100,000 people were displaced from their homes. as a result of these unfortunate events, a large number of towns were destroyed and local and regional infrastructure was severely damaged. historical and cultural heritage sites have also suffered greatly. the earthquakes also had a significant impact on the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, and the tourism and hotel industry. the project calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure rapid and effective financing from the european union solidarity fund and to consider the possibility of using the european fund for rural development to support rural areas and agriculture that have suffered as a result of the earthquake. it also asks the commission to verify that all the measures envisaged or intended to remedy the situation have actually been used by the italian government for this specific purpose. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on the situation in italy following several devastating earthquakes. more than 400 people were injured and 290 lost their lives. after these events, 100,000 people were displaced from their homes. in addition, the earthquakes have destroyed towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, and ruined historical and cultural heritage sites. economic activities, especially agriculture and the tourism and hotel industries, suffered. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ convinced of the need to maintain transparency and clear procedures for the fulfilment of certain positions, i voted in favour of the report on the commissioners' declaration of no conflict of interest. the introduction of clear verification criteria is a key element in order to eliminate conflicts of interest. this conflict arises from the blurring of the line between public and private interest. it's the lack of professionalism on the part of the clerical staff. the proposed guidelines set out in detail the commission's powers in assessing possible conflicts of interest of commissioners. the resolution also calls for the establishment of fair means of identifying family interests and relationships. i voted in favour of the resolution, calling for an objective administration and transparency in decision-making.
in writing. ‒ the report defines the concept of conflict of interest and explains the procedure for checking declarations of assets before the hearings of commissioners-designate and during the commissioner's term of office. the commission is called upon to review the code of conduct for commissioners as soon as possible in order to broaden the scope of declarations of absence of conflict of interest, which could result in a clearer content and facilitate the ep's task. it also calls for the establishment of fair methods for determining family interests. the final report concludes that the confirmation of the absence of conflict of interest cannot be equated with the assessment of the candidate's skills and must therefore be a necessary precondition for the interview. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution defines the concept of conflict of interest and clarifies the procedure for checking declarations of assets before the hearings of commissioner-designate and during the commissioner's term of office. the commission is invited to revise the code of conduct for commissioners as soon as possible in order to extend the scope of declarations of no conflict of interest. the resolution also calls for the establishment of fair methods for determining family interests. since the beginning of my parliamentary career, i have campaigned for transparency and clarity in eu procedures and i am glad that parliament has taken up this important issue. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the european parliament, as an institution with a strong democratic mandate, should address recent public opinion concerns over potential conflicts of interest regarding some former commissioners by reassuring citizens that such situations will not happen again. this the reason why i welcome this report introducing stricter guidelines on the identification of conflicts of interest going hand in hand with a substantial reform of the commissioners’ code of conduct. therefore, those reforms mean basically more european parliament involvement and powers regarding the financial declarations and also some additional commissioner hearings in case of portfolio changes. furthermore, once a conflict is identified by the committee on legal affairs, the president of the european parliament shall formally ask the president of the european commission what further steps are envisaged in this situation. this procedure in turn can lead even to a resignation from office of a commissioner whose integrity is being questioned. consequently, i think that this report is a further step towards making eu institutions more transparent and at the same time bringing them closer to the citizens, hence i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities, because of my many doubts. i do not think that the proposed extension of the scope of the rules is necessary. the existing provisions on the subject matter do not require the proposed amendments. the regulation of these matters is sufficient to safeguard the safety of offshore fuel extraction activities.
in writing. ‒ more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in europe comes from offshore activities. such exploration and production activities are already being carried out or planned in the territorial seas of 18 eu member states. consequently, it was necessary to introduce provisions to protect against losses caused by such activities at sea. the new rules were adopted by the european parliament at its november plenary session in brussels. the effectiveness of national schemes in relation to pollution damage caused by such activities is based on systems for dealing with claims for compensation and the availability of financial security instruments. at present, with the exception of france, the netherlands and denmark, in many member states there is little likelihood of the complainants obtaining compensation, especially where they are indirectly injured enterprises such as fish processing plants. in this context, the european commission should work closely with member states to ensure that compensation and financial security systems for activities related to oil and natural gas deposits in eu offshore areas are adapted to current requirements. they must provide compensation for claims by third parties and for traditional damage caused by failures in such maritime activities.
in writing. ‒ the report strongly calls for increased liability for offshore oil and gas deposits. it calls for a eu liability framework in this area, calling for harmonisation of minimum liability for civil damages and recommending a common eu-level mechanism for handling incidents (another agency). the commission is also invited to consider the creation of a legal compensation mechanism and it is proposed to extend its scope to secondary damage (paragraph 3). it also calls on the commission to add major accidents in the oil extraction sector to the environmental offences directive, regretting that the definitions of offences in this area have not been harmonised. equally importantly, the commission is invited to consider a proposal to establish a fund to be set up from fees paid by the offshore mining sector. however, the amendments on minimum interference in national policy were ignored.
in writing. ‒ following the deepwater horizon oil spill and explosion, a directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations was adopted. it aims to establish minimum requirements for the prevention of major accidents in this type of activity and to limit the consequences of such accidents. the directive provides that concessionaires are absolutely responsible for preventing and remedying environmental damage caused by their activities. however, the directive does not regulate civil liability for damage caused to natural or legal persons. nor does it establish criminal liability for accidents in maritime areas. the european commission should therefore work more closely with the member states to ensure that compensation and financial security schemes for offshore oil and gas activities in the eu allow for the swift and proper handling of claims. it is equally important to provide a legal framework for actions to repair environmental damage caused by a marine casualty in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle.
in writing. ‒ the current legal situation does not require major changes. the safety directive is well received by the public and should not be changed significantly. unfortunately, the proposed legislation goes much further than initially thought. in the long term, these provisions may be seen as negative, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the initiation of actions to put an end to the undemocratic behaviour of the authorities in the democratic republic of congo. the constant pursuit of power through illegal practices calls into question the basic values of democracy. the authorities are seeking to unreasonably undermine the constitution to ensure their own power in the next term. these actions take on the characteristics of the practices of the authorities in totalitarian states, where the rights of opposition are destroyed and any opposition to the ruling is aggressively suppressed. i believe that we must strongly protest against such governments and guarantee respect for electoral rights as well as the rights of the opposition.
in writing. ‒ the mandate of the president of the drc is constitutionally limited to two terms, and the next presidential and parliamentary elections were originally scheduled for the end of 2016. unfortunately, for the past two years, president joseph kabila, in power since 2001, has used administrative and technical measures to delay elections and stay in power after the end of his term. this situation has led to unprecedented political tensions, riots and an escalation of violence across the country. human rights groups have consistently reported a deterioration in the human rights and freedom of expression and assembly situation in the drc, including the use of force against peaceful demonstrators, unjustified arrests and detentions, and politically motivated trials. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that all political forces engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue. otherwise, the current political crisis will only worsen and further violence will be encouraged. another important element of the normalisation of the situation in the country is the immediate release of all political prisoners and the lifting of all restrictions on the media. the european union should also under no circumstances exclude the imposition of targeted sanctions on those responsible for the brutal repression and undermining of the democratic process in the drc. the lack of a firm response on our part is an incentive to further destabilize the situation in this country.
in writing. ‒ support the aspirations of the congolese people to hold democratic presidential elections. the growing social opposition to the dignitaries is manifesting itself in mass demonstrations and strikes. unfortunately, there are disturbing signs coming from the drc: the current president and his officials are engaging in arrests, illegal detention of prisoners and various forms of violence. international opinion, including the un and the us, has condemned the behaviour and imposed severe sanctions. the resolution calls on president kabila to respect the provisions of the constitution and step down after the end of his second term, as well as to hold elections. it also calls for the release of those unjustly detained and for an end to the use of force against lawful demonstrations, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ achieving sustainable access to energy is crucial to meeting human needs and is a key driver of development. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen european policy towards africa, namely the establishment of a europe-africa partnership for the electrification of the continent. the resolution notes the eu's strong commitment to efforts to reduce energy poverty, and stresses the need for strong and coordinated action by governments and stakeholders in affected countries to reduce poverty and achieve the sustainable development goal. i fully support any effort to ensure access to energy in developing countries. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. unfortunately, the wording of the resolution is not as clear as i expected. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is essential to meet basic human needs and respect for fundamental rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe environment, health care, heating and education, and plays a key role in virtually all economic activities and is a crucial driver of development. unfortunately, 1.2 billion people today lack access to electricity, and for many more, access is uncertain. the situation in sub-saharan africa is the most serious, and it may get worse as population increases. at the same time, africa has the largest untapped renewable energy potential on the planet. the paris agreement, which aims to support developing countries, especially in africa, in developing sustainable energy, can make a significant improvement in this area. there is no doubt that much better coordination is needed between the many eu and international initiatives to increase access to energy in developing countries. otherwise, it will be difficult to achieve the goals you set.
in writing. ‒ ensuring sustainable access to energy is essential to meet humanity's basic needs and is a key driver of development. the growing contribution of private investment in this sector is cited as necessary to achieve affordable and secure energy for all. such investment can be stimulated by government action. any activity that has a direct impact on the availability of energy in developing countries should be supported. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. i believe that the scope of the regulation in this area will facilitate recovery in cross-border cases. the procedure is voluntary, which means that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to the various equivalent national procedures. in summary, this procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of undisputed civil and commercial claims easily. such an order may be requested by letter or, often, by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and is enforceable in other member states without any further formalities. it should be noted that the current regulations in force in the member states in this field are very effective.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of sums in cross-border cases. the procedure allows creditors to obtain an order for the recovery of undisputed civil and commercial claims easily. such an order may be requested by letter or, often, by electronic means, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and is enforceable in other member states without any further formalities. the european order for payment is issued automatically, solely on the basis of an action, but the debtor may lodge an objection within 30 days. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure is designed to enable the recovery of debts that are certain, of a fixed amount, due and uncontested by the defendant, in a rapid, easy and inexpensive manner. it should be borne in mind that late payments are the main cause of bankruptcy. this threatens the existence of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and leads to the loss of many jobs. however, i am concerned that there are significant differences between member states in the application of the european order for payment procedure. difficulties also arise in the acceptance of applications in other european languages, which negatively affects the costs and time of the proceedings. in this context, it is therefore of the utmost importance to take practical steps to further simplify the existing procedures and to inform citizens and businesses about the availability, functioning, application and benefits of the european order for payment procedure in cross-border cases.
mr. chairman, please! i just want to inform the house that in poland a large part of our public opinion accepts with great pain the idea that on 13 december and on days when we remember above all the times when many of us - i am not speaking figuratively at the moment, i am speaking literally about many of our members of parliament - when many of us were silenced, when many of us were hiding 35 years ago, that on this day we could talk about poland in a substantive way. i consider this motion to be... no, my colleague has also said why this motion is politically unjustified. but in addition, he is extremely inappropriate to the polish public. that is why i am calling for this item to be removed from the agenda.
mr president, in reaction to the proposal regarding the developments in poland, i have an oral compromise. there are new, serious reasons to debate the situation in poland, but the timing is not good. this week we are coming up to the anniversary of the imposition of martial law on polish society; it is a time to commemorate the victims and a time for reflection. therefore, my proposal is to postpone the debate, not to wednesday of this week, but rather to have first vice—president timmermans appear with his arguments in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and to hold the debate later on the basis of this fact-finding mission.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of the polish delegation, i support the position that this debate should not be held on 13 december, which is tomorrow, because 13 december marks the 35th anniversary of the declaration of martial law in poland. our debate on that day would have caused a discussion about that date, distracting attention from the essence of the state and democracy. let this day be a time of quiet reflection, of what too much conflict, too much tension, too little compromise can lead to. let this also be an opportunity to say that we avoided - by not having a debate - further tensions. there are reasons for always debating the rule of law, democracy, because that is the essence of our union. i know the position of the conference of presidents; i know that the conference of presidents wants to propose this debate for tuesday. so i formally ask, first, that this debate not be held tomorrow, december 13th. secondly, if possible, to postpone it to the next part-session, if not, as a solution satisfactory to the conference of presidents, i propose the day after tomorrow, wednesday 14 december.
on behalf of the s&d group. the fourth railway package is, of course, still a synthesis of the programme of change in rail transport and an attempt to build a single european railway area. and as far as the assumptions in this area are concerned, i think we all have no doubt about it. we want to increase the importance of rail in the transport market, both in passenger and freight transport. the railway is practically the only transport sector at present that shows such a low level of internal coherence in the european union. the package consists of two parts: technical and political. the technical part definitely brings ease, simplification, makes the railway industry become similar to aviation, to the automobile industry, and at the same time this part recognizes norms, standards. the second aspect is the political part, which president sassoli mentioned, and which includes an element called public service obligations. and that's where my group has some reservations. what are these objections? they concern the so-called freedom to transfer staff between one operator whose licence is expiring and a new operator. we insist that you provide for the obligation to take over the crew. why would you do that? it's about quality of service, safety. not every cheap solution is the best. and we're going to demand it.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the adoption of the fourth railway package starts the creation of the single european railway area. the solutions in this package are certainly beneficial for consumers, as the liberalisation and opening of railway markets and the emergence of competitive operators always ensure improved quality of service, better transport prices, a wider choice of connections, and increased delivery and frequency of transport services. i also hope that the volume of goods transported by rail will increase, which will help to reduce the burden on road transport. moreover, the implementation of the package will allow for a wider support for railway investment, creating the new jobs that europe so badly needs today. the fourth railway package is certainly a huge opportunity for the railway natives of each member state, as they will be granted the right to operate on the internal lines of other european countries. the introduction of the principle of open tendering will give all carriers in europe access to present their offers, and i know that no solution, no law will satisfy everyone 100%. and by the way, those voices, those worries about the employees, they were heard in this room. i hope, however, that everyone understands that the consumer is very important, that the common rail market is important for competitiveness. i'd like to thank everyone who was involved in making this difficult law, because it was certainly difficult to find consensus between expectations and possibilities.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i really wish to thank the parliament and its rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, as well as the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on transport and tourism for the important work they have accomplished. the commission welcomes the agreement reached in the trilogue – 15 years is a really long time. maritime ports are vital for the european economy, for an efficient internal market, and to connect europe to the world. with their logistic and industrial activities, maritime ports provide employment to three million europeans. they are also critical for developing short-sea shipping as an alternative to road transport as part of our strategy to decarbonise transport. this is why maritime ports are extremely valuable assets to be preserved and strengthened. that is what we will achieve with the regulation discussed today, and that is why the commission considers this file a priority under the work programme for 2016. first, the regulation will ensure greater transparency for the use of public funds in ports. many receive considerable financial support from both national and eu budgets. transparency will contribute to a genuine level playing field between european ports. it will also help to make public funding more efficient. the court of auditors stressed the need to address this issue in a recent report. second, the regulation creates a common framework for the provision of port services. this framework brings legal stability for the tendering of port services. it will end today’s unclear situation where port policy is not decided by you, the legislators, but rather by judgments of the european court of justice on a case-by-case basis. third, it will ensure better training of port workers in line with the work undertaken by the social partners. finally, the regulation will contribute to our decarbonisation strategy. we need to green the shipping industry and promote short-sea shipping. this requires investment and the right type of investment in ports, and investments need transparency. many of you attach great importance to clear and simple state aid rules. the commission shares this attachment. we have been working a lot on the issue of state aid in ports over the last months. my colleague, commissioner vestager, and i are making sure that the views of european ports are adequately taken into account. replying last week to a parliamentary question from mr fleckenstein the commission clarified the framework for state aid in ports, including the general block exemption regulation. the situation is as follows. a new set of infrastructure analytical grids was published on 2 december 2016. with this document, the commission explains which infrastructures are considered to be non—economic and which should therefore not fall under the state aid rules. this infrastructure includes defence infrastructure, such as dykes, and access infrastructure to ports, such as a river flowing through the port that can be used by anyone. last week, the commission also completed its second public consultation on the general block exemption regulation. its objective is to identify which public investments in port infrastructure are considered state aid, but which are unproblematic and therefore do not need to be notified. we are now analysing the replies to improve the text further and adopt the regulation in 2017. the result of the analytical grid and a revised general block exemption regulation will be more legal certainty and more clarity. but there will be no change in the decision-making practice of the commission. with this work we are doing exactly what you have been calling for under recital 45 of the port services regulation. however, for institutional reasons and to recall the better law-making principles agreed between the commission and the co-legislators, we will record a statement from the commission regarding this recital. the text is balanced. it is the result of three years of discussion with all the stakeholders. all major organisations representing the european port sector stand behind it; the trade unions, port authorities, port terminal operators and port service providers. it received a strong support in the transport committee and was accepted unanimously by member states. so now it is time to conclude the legislative procedure in first reading. all the circumstances allow it.
on behalf of the s&d group. i'm not going to let you down. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report. there are two voices in this chamber: the balanced approach of the rapporteur, who has pointed out the weak points, who has pointed out the issues that still seem at least worth tackling, and the enthusiasm of the rapporteur and the commissioner, who have just said that everything is great. well, commissioner, in my constituency there are the ports of szczecin and świnoujście, right next to gdańsk and gdynia, and they don't support it, nor do the trade unionists from those ports. because here's the division. what you're proposing is certainly good for the big strong ports, and it's not necessarily good for the ports that are still in the growth phase. we would like to see port infrastructure treated like rail or road, so there has to be state aid, we have to create sea-land transport chains, it has to serve to raise the level of cohesion of our continent. so transparency is obviously necessary, but let us remember that liberalisation is not the goal, liberalisation can be the means to make these ports work well, because they work perfectly well. the court of auditors, on the other hand, points to the waste of money earmarked for investment. why would you do that? because there is no harmonization, and this package does not guarantee it.
mr. chairman, please! ports are one of the most important elements of the global supply chain and are crucial for the european transport sector and for the competitiveness of our continent. this is why it is so important to adopt solutions that improve, rather than restrict, the functioning of ports, while taking into account the specificities of port management in each member state, the specific hydrological and ecological conditions of the marine areas. i am glad that you have succeeded in convincing your rapporteur that often the approach and action at national level is better than action at european level. i am glad that the report excludes drilling, piloting and the possibility of offering them on the basis of national law. it is important that the final version of the regulation, as well as the compromise negotiated in the council, provides for the existence of different organisational models and the preservation of the autonomy of port authorities in the areas of setting port charges, but at the same time draws attention to greater financial transparency. ladies and gentlemen! fifteen years of work on this, on this material, on this dossier, shows how difficult and how delicate this tissue is. i am very pleased that the president and all those who worked on this report took account of the many comments that came from the member states and also of the many amendments that we tabled in the course of the work.
mr. chairman, please! the port package is theoretically sound in that it provides for increased competition in the services market. however, the main competition is not that between ports in european countries, but between them and other ports, including those on other continents. the maritime transport is global and no excessive financial or administrative burden can be imposed on european ports. if we do that, european ports may lose out in the global competition and shipbuilders and shipbuilders will lose out with the ports. i would therefore urge that we look at european ports in this way, and not just at what is happening inside the union.
thank you very much mr fleckenstein, especially your greetings for georg jarzembowski, from hamburg, by the way. zamykam debatę. głosowanie odbędzie się w środę 14 grudnia 2016 r.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on the council position adopted at first reading on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing detailed rules for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and rules for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing regulation (ec) no 2347/2002 (11625/1/2016 - c8-0427/2016 - 2012/0179 ((cod)) (rapporteur: isabelle thomas) (a8-0369/2016).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the deep sea and ocean ecosystems, the world of cold-water corals, sponges and deep-sea fish, have been shaped over thousands of years by extreme conditions: no light, no oxygen, low water temperatures. but deep-sea fishing is slowly destroying this delicate ecosystem. it should be noted that deep-sea fish grow very slowly, mature late, have low reproductive capacity and are long-lived, for example, the atlantic orange roughy lives up to 150 years and the ability to reproduce is acquired only at the age of 25 to 30 years. the current regulation of the european parliament and of the council is, however, a great opportunity and a great hope for the protection of the deep sea and the ocean, while at the same time creating prudent and economical management of the fishing fleet. the management of deep-sea resources must be sustainable and interconnected, in line with scientific guidelines, and should effectively protect this unique ecosystem.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her great work. finally, after four years of intense political and technical work, a balanced compromise agreement has been achieved. the cornerstone of this agreement between the council and parliament is banning bottom-trawling, which targets deep-water species at depths of more than 800 m. this new provision will protect delicate marine ecosystems of the deep sea and i fully support it. the principle of ‘footprint freeze’, restricting activities to the areas where fishing took place between 2009 and 2011 was also agreed. the non-application of the regulation to neafc, a red line for epp, was also agreed; provisions were approved including the recording of all catches to improve monitoring of these fishing activities. member states will also be required to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems, and the commission will assess this data annually and adapt the allowed fishing area accordingly. with all these objectives reached, i can fully support this deal.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. fellow workers! i would like the report to focus on the application of fundamental rights by the eu institutions themselves, on respect for property, economic freedom, good administration, which is also a fundamental right. the report, however, focuses not on what belongs to the european union but on the member states, and it makes a number of mistakes. first, there is no right to intervene in matters of family law, in matters of the right to life, which are matters for the member states. secondly, we are dealing with a dubious interpretation of freedom which is so broad that it prevents the active fight for the security of europeans. finally, as regards national minorities, poland is a country that sets an example of broad protection of the rights of national minorities, and i would very much like other countries to follow this kind of standard. it is therefore worthwhile to share experiences in this area.
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights, which is a set of fundamental human rights and civic duties, is the guarantor of a just society. that is why i am concerned that the citizens of poland and the united kingdom are still not covered by these fundamental rights, as both countries do not recognise the cfp. the rise of racism and xenophobia in its many forms - afro-phobia, anti-roma, anti-semitism and islamophobia - is worrying. there is no derogation from the protection of freedom of thought, religion or belief. all eu member states must respect fundamental rights. the fundamental rights of women and girls continue to be violated, and they do not even enjoy the same protection against violence in all member states. further action is needed to combat this phenomenon. in this context, member states should be reminded that the mere accession of the eu to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence does not relieve them of their obligation to sign, ratify and apply the principles contained therein. i was surprised and disbelieved to learn that poland, which had recently ratified the istanbul convention, now wanted to withdraw from it.
madam president! the development of a comprehensive and long-term industrial policy framework for the creative and cultural sectors is essential. we need to ensure adequate financing to increase competitiveness and create quality jobs and growth. to achieve this, the rapporteurs' report proposes a harmonised definition of the creative and cultural sector, which should be supported by statistical data. we also call on the commission to establish a balanced legal framework, including in the area of copyright, adapted to the specificities of the sector. it is important that cross-sectoral cooperation fosters interactions between smes and research centres and universities in order to integrate creativity with entrepreneurship education and business skills. it is necessary to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises, while promoting mixed financing, in particular in the form of public-private partnerships. the efforts to improve the participation of the creative and cultural sectors in the european fund for strategic investments will also be important.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. i welcome the debate on this report, which reminds us all that the cornerstone of the eastern partnership is respect for fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and women's rights. it is therefore very important that gender equality is guaranteed in the constitutions and laws of all eastern partnership countries. nevertheless, the report rightly emphasizes that women continue to be victims of social discrimination. this is reflected, for example, in the fact that in 2015 only 17 out of 136 senior ministerial positions were held by women, and the gender pay gap remains high, reaching as high as 50%, despite the fact that women on average have higher education than men. this is why the eu must continue to share its best practices through the euronest parliamentary assembly and, above all, support ngos representing civil society. the partnership is particularly important for the development of the european union's information policy, especially since it is these organisations that, together with the governments of the partner states, are responsible for carrying out information campaigns aimed at eradicating long-standing stereotypes about the role of women in society. we all need to remember that even the best legal standards guaranteeing gender equality will only be a dead letter if, alongside their implementation, there is no change in the perception of the social role of women by the citizens of the eastern partnership countries.
madam president! despite the ban on the prophylactic use of antibiotics in farm animals, both the who and the world medicines agency report that the levels of antibiotics in meat have risen to three times the acceptable standard. two-thirds of the world's antibiotics are fed to animals. the production of food with antibiotics, with pesticides, with food additives, with hormones and with genetically modified products is the cause of epidemics already at this moment, allergies, cancers, diabetes, obesity and, above all, the decline of immunity. clearly, bans do little to promote the commercial production of food. the only way out is to promote organic food, which is more labour-intensive but much more beneficial for eu citizens. we have a saying in our minds, "you are what you eat", they're poisoned with chemical cocktails, they're stuffed with genetically modified products.
madam president! the european union has the esa. it sent rosetta to the comet, where the philae lander was supposed to land, but the lander didn't land. a billion and a half euros went down in the mud. on october 19th, the schiaparelli lander crashed on the surface of mars. so i looked into the cassini mission that the european space agency was touting. turns out europa was solely responsible for the huygens lander that landed on titan, but unfortunately, because of a transmission defect, half the data was lost. i propose we leave the agency, the chinese are doing better, soon nigeria will develop its own space program. it is true that the text of the european constitution was sent into space 15 years ago, and it is not the fault of the space agency that the constitution has been rejected and that beings from other stars have an outdated and false view of europe. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, distinguished members, as you will remember, on the previous occasions when we have met over the past two years i was always telling you about our plans, objectives and our future path for creating the energy union, one which serves europe’s citizens, boosts our industries and preserves our environment. but at this point in time as we are meeting in december 2016, i would like to say to you that our internal work in the commission is now almost entirely complete. we have presented to you over the past two years the strategy, the legislation and the enabling environment for turning the energy union from a catchy buzzword to the reality we live in. with last week’s package we are 90% done with what we have promised, and now we very much need the european parliament to make sure that the energy union also becomes a legal reality. we need to work together to make sure that we start the co-legislative process as early as possible. of course, last week’s package was rather a big one. it has eight legislative proposals and some important political communications and reports, so i shall just focus on the three main goals: how to put energy efficiency first; how to achieve global leadership in renewables; and what we can do to provide a really fair deal for our consumers. as you will have already noticed, this package is bound to have a huge impact on jobs and growth. it could generate around a 1% increase in gdp in the next 10 years. it could spur investment of eur 177 billion and it would directly improve the life and quality of our citizens. on this last aspect it was very important for us to have a particular social component in the package, particularly for those who have difficulties in paying their energy bills, and to make sure that the transition we are starting will be a transition which we can call socially fair. as you can imagine, because of the time constraints i will not be able to go into the details of the overall package, so i will just focus on some elements of the new governance systems we are proposing. when we discussed it the last time, in december 2015, you were very much inviting the commission to present a legislative proposal on the governance. we listened very carefully to you and we proposed such a proposal. it serves three objectives. first, it streamlines the different planning and reporting obligations, and we are making sure that we will really get rid of overlapping reporting obligations, we will align the reporting in terms of frequency and timing, and i believe that what we are putting on the table is in full accordance with the reporting and planning of the paris agreement. so it will allow us to continue to play a leading role in the paris agreement implementation. secondly, you have been very much calling for increased transparency and more predictability, which we introduced into the system as well because we see them as two essential conditions to attract investments and indeed to fundamentally transform and modernise our economies. thirdly, we are proposing a mechanism that is solid and robust so we can collectively reach all the energy union’s objectives, in particular the 2030 targets, and to put europe firmly on the road to a low-carbon economy and society. how do we want to achieve it? the key instrument will be the national energy and climate plans, plans that have a long-term perspective of 2030 or even 2050. the plans will cover all five dimensions of the energy union and will be the result of consultations with other neighbouring member states because we know how important regional cooperation in this aspect is. we would like to make sure that the work on these plans will start swiftly because we would like to see the final form by the beginning of 2019, and this will be an important goal of my second energy union which i would like to start in february next year and where i hope some of you, as we did the last time, could join me. then we will have a system of biannual reports and every year we will also issue a report on the energy union, where we will analyse the overall situation in europe and where we will also if needed issue the necessary recommendations. i see that time is flying by. therefore, madam president, i would like to pass the floor, if you will allow, also to commissioner arias cañete so that he can go into more detail on the concrete legislative proposals.
member of the commission. – madam president, as explained by vice-president šefčovič, the main building blocks of the legislative proposals cover energy efficiency, renewable energy, the design of the electricity market and governance rules for the energy union. let me start with energy efficiency first. we are proposing, as we promised, a european union binding target of 30% for 2030, up from the current target of at least 27%. a 30% target is the most cost-effective option by 2030. it will create about 400 000 more new jobs, reduce gas imports by 12% and save eur 70 billion in fossil fuel import bills. for buildings, a sector which accounts for 40% of europe’s energy consumption, we are proposing to speed up the renovation rate and promote the use of innovative and smart technologies. this will boost activity and revive employment in the construction and engineering sectors. as examples of concrete measures we propose prolonging the savings obligations in order to contribute to the energy efficiency target, deploying about five million electric vehicle recharging points, and encouraging greater use of renewable energy in buildings, which is currently just 16%. with this set of measures, our proposal will speed up investment in the renovation of buildings, create a building renovation market with a value between eur 80 and 120 billion in 2030, lower energy bills for consumers, and take up to 3.2 million households out of energy poverty. last, but not least: for products, the commission has adopted a new ecodesign working plan. on renewable energy, our aim is to be world leaders, maximising the use of renewable energy in buildings, transport and industry. our new rules will ensure that the renewable energy target of at least 27% by 2030 is reached. first, we are putting the investment framework right by consolidating several core principles for support for renewable energy in european union legislation. we move away from national schemes and propose a progressive europeanisation through cross-border opening of support. we want to put an end to retroactive changes in support, and we call for simplified administrative procedures to get the projects up and running. second, we propose measures for the sectors which have the highest potential for the deployment of renewable energy: transport, heating and cooling, and electricity. in transport the proposed measures will boost the use of advanced biofuels, electricity and renewable synthetic fuels. we have proposed an ambitious mandate of 6.8% by 2030, with a strong component of 3.6% of advanced biofuels. on bioenergy in particular, after many years of uncertainty, we are introducing strengthened sustainability criteria for biomass. also, in line with our earlier position, we propose to progressively reduce the contribution of food-based biofuels to meet the european union’s renewable target: from 7% in 2021 to 3.8% by 2030. this is both realistic and proportionate. the renewables directive also includes a number of options for member states to increase their share of renewable energy in heating and cooling supply by one percentage point per year until 2030. furthermore, our proposal opens access rights to local district heating and cooling systems for producers of renewable heating and cooling and waste from industry, and third parties acting on their behalf. this takes me to the third area: renewable electricity. our target of at least 27% also means a 50% share of renewables in our electricity mix. here the proposed renewables directive and the new market design proposals work hand in hand. we are overhauling the electricity market, and we do so mainly in two ways. first, by changing the rules of the market. the new market rules will promote a more flexible market. sharper price signals will prompt investment in demand response, storage and quickly reacting generation. our proposals will make trading easier by better integrating short-term markets. second, by fostering regional cooperation. we will create regional operational centres where transmission system operators will cooperate to ensure optimal use of the european electricity grid and better security of supply. and we will set up a europe-wide dso entity to coordinate the operation and planning of the transmission and distribution networks. third, by giving a european dimension to security of supply. we will develop common rules on crisis prevention and tools to ensure cross-border cooperation to confront new threats to security of supply, such as cyber-attacks. and we will establish a common framework for capacity remuneration mechanisms. this framework will build on a wider european adequacy assessment. all available capacities, including in neighbouring states, will be taken into account and this will make sure that the right amount of capacity is identified. we provide rules the rules to ensure cross-border participation. this is a big change compared with today, and it will keep costs to consumers to a minimum and preserve the functioning of the internal market. but i want to be very clear on one more point. capacity mechanisms will not be used as a backdoor subsidy for high-polluting fossil fuels. that would go against our climate objectives. that is why we have set a limit of 550 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour for new plants, and existing capacity mechanisms also have to adapt to the new rules in due time. in all of this, our european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) will ensure the proper regulatory oversight. we propose therefore to reinforce acer’s powers to meet these tasks. finally, allow me to underline one of the essential elements of the package, namely putting consumers at the centre. the new rules will enable them not only to be more informed or to change their provider more easily, but to be able, if they want, to produce their own renewable electricity and be paid for electricity they feed into the grid. in that case, their contribution to the grid costs should be fair and cost-reflective while they continue to benefit from facilitated access to the market – the so-called priority dispatch. i expect this complete set of proposals will be adopted by the co-legislators as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the package presented by the commission is indeed very extensive, with several dozen legislative drafts and hundreds of pages, so there is a lot of work to be done. but it should not be done in haste or under pressure, and the treaty-based division of competences between the member states of the community should be respected, bearing in mind the right of the member states to decide on their own energy mix, the right to choose how to achieve the community's objectives, for example in the field of decarbonisation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to achieve the objective of the union's policy on energy from renewable sources. some proposals raise doubts in this respect, for example the commission's proposal to create capacity markets in the member states, in particular the proposed emission ceiling, which runs counter to the union's increasing energy independence. in practice, this means that only gas-fired units are allowed to form capacity markets. the commission considers that the exemption of biomass from the scope of the renewable energy sources is not compatible with the internal market. the concept of a financial platform centrally managed by the european commission also raises concerns. there are also doubts about the proposal to set a legally binding energy efficiency target of 30%. this remains at odds with the december 2014 climate summit. but we're going to work on all of that, and i hope we can reach a compromise on those issues.
madam president! i congratulate the european commission, the commissioners responsible for energy, on this package. this is the approach we need - in the form of a package, because all these elements of the energy union are linked and we already have almost 90% of the legislation needed in our union. five short remarks: the energy union governance system includes an energy import dependency ratio that's good. we wanted this in our report on the energy union. second, there is a common target at union level for res of 27% by 2030. but we must also guarantee energy neutrality, as we have said many times and emphasized. thirdly, if we are to safeguard this neutrality, then the setting of the emission limit on the power market at 550 kilograms per megawatt hour is certainly contrary to article 194 of our treaty, which guarantees the choice of the energy mix by the member states. fourth point: the financial platform for supporting res. we want to trade in renewable energy, this platform should be in the main act, not in the delegated acts. and fifth, the eu's ambitious 30% energy efficiency target is welcome, because the itre committee has always advocated a high energy efficiency target.
madam president! when i listened to mr. cañeta, i had the impression that i was listening to the ramblings of a madman. there's no mention of profit, which is in every business, but twenty percent here, thirty percent here, forty-seven here, fifty-two there. i wanted to make mr. cañeta, who was probably sleeping in school, realize that carbon dioxide is not waste, it's not a poison, it's a precious building block that plants build their matter from. carbon dioxide is priceless. he's making the ground green right now. i'm talking to the greens. ladies and gentlemen, by now most scientists are saying that global warming, if it exists at all, has nothing to do with human activity. and i swear to god, i swear on my children's heads, i will not rest until the people who have spent the vast sums of money to fight global warming are in jail. because your place, mr. cañete, is in prison, not on this bench. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in taking part in this debate, i want to draw attention to a very important issue from the point of view of my country, poland. the criteria proposed by the commission mean that countries using coal as an energy source will not be able to launch so-called capacity markets, whereas the eu treaties stipulate that individual member states determine their own energy basket. unfortunately, this has led to the last-minute addition to the draft regulation of a solution that only power plants emitting less than 550 kilograms of co2 per megawatt hour will be able to participate in the power market. with the state-of-the-art units currently emitting around 700 kilograms of co2, this provision essentially eliminates coal-fired power plants, and the proposed five-year transition period for older plants that do not meet this standard does little to change that. the fact that this was added to the regulation at the last minute (as it was not in earlier versions) without an impact assessment shows that this was a political decision by the commissioners without looking at the economic impact on member states, including a country like poland, which has a coal-based energy industry.
madam president! energy security, the fight against energy poverty, the modernisation of generation and transmission infrastructure and the green use of available energy sources are priorities in the dynamic, optimal implementation of the optimal energy union paradigm. energy, including clean coal, when other sources are not available in sufficient quantities. this is necessary to reduce the energy dependence on imports. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union and its implementation in the member states. the development of efficient production of network heat in thermal power plants, including green coal-fired plants, also requires support. decarbonisation cannot be achieved by artificial administrative constraints and imposed unrealistic limits, but by real efficiency gains.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the clean energy package is a little bit controversial. the first concerns the criteria that member states will have to fulfil in order to activate the capacity market. under the treaty, commissioner, each country has the right to decide on the shape of its energy basket. unfortunately, the commission's proposal excludes the use of coal in the construction of the power market, and this will weaken poland's energy security. secondly, the commission, in its role as energy policy maker, takes over the powers of the council. in october 2014, heads of government agreed that the union would aim to reduce energy consumption by 27% by 2030. without any legal basis, the commission converts the ambitious target into a legally binding target and raises it to 30%. i hope that further work on the clean energy package will remove these reservations.
madam president! energy policy should always take into account the context of the country, its sources, the raw materials it uses and its standard of living. only such a policy is an expression of solidarity, not socialism, which wants to use public power to eliminate competition or limit its ability to operate. the elimination of coal as an energy source will only lead to an increase in the dependence of not only poland, but the entire european union on russia. anyone who doesn't understand that shouldn't hold any public office at all. i would also like to remind you of the current article 98 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in that article in maastricht you wrote down the special right of germany to public aid for that part of germany which was under soviet domination, which experienced the misfortune of communism, and today the alleged pretext of public aid is used even where there is none at all to restrict the development of most countries which have experienced the same.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i understand the intentions of the european commission it is an attempt to find a solution to make the european union's economy competitive in the face of the inevitable technological transformation in the energy sector, and this transformation must go towards clean energy. and indeed, the strength of this proposal is that it's an attempt to market green energy. renewable energy sources are losing priority in grid access, but the initial assumption underlying this is overly optimistic, namely that the package will achieve 1% gdp growth across the european union. because it really does abstract from the differences between countries, the very conditions of each country that both commissioners know very well. it's not a technologically neutral proposition, as you gentlemen know. this interferes with the energy basket, which should be a matter for the sovereign decision of the member states. from the point of view of a country like poland, the most worrying of course are the limits that effectively exclude coal from the power market. this limit, which the commission is proposing at 550 grams of co2 per kilowatt hour, prevents public support, but worse, prevents public support for clean coal energy, which is the only way for countries like poland to achieve their climate goals and should not be penalized for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i would also like to thank mr corbett and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work. that's a very good effect. a report is a synthesis. the european parliament will be able to function effectively, and political groups will retain their political rights and freedom of expression. i want to stress the need for transparency, which is very important for policy accountability, for citizens' trust in the institutions of the european union. i am the author of this amendment, which provides for the election of the president of the european commission by open ballot. this is what the accountability of the policy is all about, and this is what the traditions of more than 20 eu member states are all about. i understand that germany has different traditions, but this is a reaction to the experience of the nazi dictatorship; the european parliament does not necessarily have to take them into account. finally, the coherence of the process is at stake: since european political families are encouraged to nominate candidates for the post of president of the european commission during the elections to the european parliament, the choice of the president of the european commission by the european parliament should be as open as the political process in elections. that is why i urge you to vote for the open election of the president of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's consent to the framework agreement on eu-algeria relations and its participation in eu programmes. i believe that programmes to support algeria's efforts to develop all sectors of the economy should be supported. relations between algeria and the european union are based on the association agreement signed in 2005 as part of the euro-mediterranean partnership. these include politics, economics, trade, technical and financial cooperation and humanitarian aid. the economic cooperation involving both parties is a particular argument in favour of supporting the agreement. the aim should be to secure the widest possible agreement in the european parliament on the consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ algeria's relations with the eu are based on the association agreement signed in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership in 2005. these include politics, economics, trade, technical and financial cooperation and humanitarian aid. the association agreement provides for economic cooperation, through several mechanisms, involving both parties. the eu also funds a number of programmes to support algeria's efforts in various areas of the economy. the first assessment of the functioning of the association arrangement was carried out in 2009. the second assessment procedure is currently underway. in 2014, the general rules for the participation of algeria in union programmes were also established in a separate agreement. i have hereby endorsed the framework agreement on eu-algeria relations and its participation in eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the existing relations are sufficient and allow algeria to benefit from a favourable economic relationship with the eu. so i was against agreeing to a new contract.
in writing. ‒ the eu-algeria association agreement was concluded in 2005 as part of the euro-mediterranean partnership, the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training of staff and the purchase of equipment and tools for the management of the training programme. this appropriation is intended to cover the union's programmes under the following pillars: reform of the justice system and increased participation of citizens in public affairs, economic and labour market reform. but above all, the union should give priority to the first pillar, given that the arab spring has already shown that citizens are clearly opposed to authoritarian leaders in the region. it is therefore crucial that the eu focuses on promoting democracy in algeria under the current agreement, as in the long run democratic countries simply prove to be more stable countries. it is important to remember that the current civil wars in libya and syria are the result of the social protests of the arab spring. given these conflicts in our close neighbourhood, it is crucial for the security of the union that algeria gradually democratise and remain stable. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the concern to protect and preserve the richness of the atlantic is very close to my heart. the eu has a large deep-sea fishing fleet operating in the deep-sea zone. research has shown that deep-sea fishing (in particular using seine trawlers) irreversibly damages the seabed and the organisms that live there, including corals, sponge colonies and seamount ecosystems. the agreement reached between the eu and the main players in the deep-sea fisheries market allows the introduction of measures to protect the richness of the ocean. the regulation introduces, inter alia, a ban on bottom trawling and the establishment of a geographical area of influence for vessels so that they can only fish in areas where they have previously fished. implementation of the 'stay-away' principle in case of discovery of vulnerable marine ecosystems, vessels may not use fishing gear. i believe that we should strive to strengthen the control measures to ensure that all parties comply with the rules. however, i cannot agree with the effd's proposal to reject the council's position. i voted against the motion in the interest of the protection of the atlantic waters.
in writing. ‒ the restrictions introduced could lead to a substantial reduction in catches and consequently the collapse of many fisheries enterprises. we must support the fight to stop the degradation of the underwater flora, but it is important that we do so at the expense of work and people, and i therefore voted against the report.
mr president, i have voted against because i do not agree with the method by which changes are introduced. especially i agree absolutely with you, mr president, that the rules cannot determine what the ex-deputies are doing after they stop being deputies. but they can lobby. but why can i not speak against the european union and try to destroy the european union and i am losing my benefits? it is incoherent. moreover i think the european union must be destroyed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure of parliament which i believe will improve and streamline the existing rules governing the working of parliament and its members. the report on the proposed changes and new solutions is the result of 18 months of work by the working party on the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which included members of the afco committee and representatives of all groups represented in parliament. the main aim of the work was to simplify the rules of procedure. the report finally included proposals for changes to the rules of procedure, on which meps reached a broad consensus. most of the amendments tabled are technical, legal or linguistic in nature and aim to improve the transparency of the rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the corbett report is the result of 18 months of work by the ep's rules of procedure working party. the main aim of the work was to simplify the rules of procedure. finally, the corbett report contains proposals for changes to the rules of procedure on which meps have reached a broad consensus. most of the amendments tabled are technical, legal or linguistic in nature and aim to improve the transparency of the rules of procedure. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. - i spent 18 months on this report. the report by mr corbett is the result of a consensus reached during the meetings of the working group of the parliament's constitutional affairs committee, of which i was a member. we have analysed and debated virtually the entire current rules of procedure of the european parliament by rearranging and reforming its format. among the amendments proposed by the working group, i also proposed an amendment on the election of the president of the european commission by open ballot (art. 117). it took only a few votes for this amendment to pass the full house. although my amendment was rejected, i voted in favour of the report in the final vote because the other amendments are also important and necessary.
mr. chairman, please! while the second article of the charter of fundamental rights clearly states the right to life, in this report not only is there no mention of the right of every human being to be born, but - moreover - there is no mention of the right of any human being to be born. but of course, we have a rather spectacular verbal juggling act about vague sexual rights. this report is a document of the decline of europe, because those who make death into law have no future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the vote on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. although the document contains positive elements such as a call for action on trafficking in human beings, support for minority rights, disabled people, women's rights and the fight against poverty among the elderly, i was very concerned to read the ideological aspects of the report. the report interferes too far with matters which are within the competence of the member states to regulate. i think that the introduction of ideological issues into the eu's system of fundamental rights protection is a controversial issue. effective protection of citizens' rights must be based on solutions and actions that are legal in nature and free of ideological and ideological elements.
in writing. ‒ the report covers a wide range of issues, including immigration, children's rights, disabled people, human trafficking and violence against women. however, because of its treatment of reproductive rights, sexual rights and abortion, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. any discrimination or violence is a direct violation of all these principles. however, more than 70 years after the end of the second world war and almost 30 years after the fall of the iron curtain, the fundamental rights of europeans continue to be violated and violated. the report deals with a wide range of issues affecting european union citizens. from protecting dignity, the rule of law, freedom and security through social inclusion and integration, to minority rights, discrimination, violence against women and hate speech, to the end. this last issue should be of particular concern to us, as hate speech is increasing among political forces, including through the internet. meanwhile, combating discrimination, racism and xenophobia is crucial to ensuring respect for european values such as tolerance, diversity and mutual respect.
in writing. ‒ the annual report has a number of generalities which should be eliminated at this stage. the report is too broad, it covers too many issues, mixing up the important with the irrelevant. there is a serious risk of misinterpretation of the text and that is why i voted against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption in 2015 of the second eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019, which takes a comprehensive approach to crisis prevention and resolution and ensures that human rights concerns are more integrated into the external aspects of eu policies. to this end, the plan increases coherence between eu actions such as migration, trade, development cooperation and the fight against terrorism. this intensification of action by the union is crucial at a time when the public space for civil society is shrinking and we are facing increasing attacks on human rights defenders and journalists around the world. moreover, the universality of democratic values is now seriously challenged not only by authoritarian regimes but also by terrorist groups, including quasi-state entities such as the so-called islamic state, which persecutes not only religious minorities but also many muslims. this has had a consequence in the form of an increased flow of refugees into the eu, hoping to find a second, safer home here. therefore, bearing in mind the essence of a comprehensive approach to promoting human rights in the world, and being fully aware of the challenges facing the eu in this regard, i have supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls on the commission to develop a coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors and which calls on the eu to integrate the development, promotion and protection of the cultural and creative sectors into its strategic objectives and overall political priorities. i believe that the cultural and creative sectors are industries based on cultural values and individual creativity and skills and talents that can generate income and create jobs. the protection of traditional production processes and traditional value chains is of particular importance in times of increasing developments in the digital economy sector. it should be noted that the commission should pay particular attention to issues concerning the liability of online platforms, labour market conditions and attempts to increase the budget of the creative europe programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's coherent policy for the cultural and creative sectors. there is no doubt that the cultural and creative industries are a particularly strong part of the european economy, and are europe's business card and identity in the world. they have a huge potential both to foster the european union's economic growth, innovation and competitiveness, but also to promote and nurture our tradition and cultural diversity. there is no doubt that they need special support to enable them to develop without restriction, and i therefore agree with the rapporteurs that it is necessary to develop an industrial strategy at european level which takes account of the specific characteristics of these industries and meets their needs, for example in the field of copyright or digitisation. furthermore, i would like to point out that many of the companies in this sector are family businesses and, due to their particular legal situation, require a comprehensive approach, especially in relation to issues such as inheritance law.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because the cultural and creative sectors are extremely important to the european economy. suffice it to say that they are made up of 3 million enterprises employing 12 million workers. the importance of this sector is also due to the fact that it is difficult to transfer existing jobs to other countries and continents. firstly, because they are linked to specific cultural competences and social experience. in addition, young people and women, the groups most affected by unemployment, are more likely to find employment in these sectors. if we look at the structure of young people's education, they very often take up education in these areas, which means that we have adequate human resources within the union. the lack of an eu strategy for this sector of the economy is therefore surprising. this means that not only is there no vision of how to exploit the existing potential, but above all we are not thinking about how to use the eu instruments and programmes to strengthen the industry in question and thus create new and stable jobs. the best example of the failure of this sector is the fact that no funding has been allocated to projects in these sectors so far under the european fund for strategic investments, one of whose priorities is to support the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. ‒ the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors rightly emphasises that creativity, inspiration and imagination should be an integral part of the learning process. in this context, it is important to ensure that member states provide more support to teachers so that they can effectively help young people to develop their creative and innovative capacities. this requires modernising teaching processes and supporting cooperation between schools to exchange the most effective methods and practices for stimulating creativity and innovation. the cultural and creative sectors are also of great importance for employment, especially for young people. in this context, it is important to include the sector in european programmes for employment and growth, with a particular focus on professional development and training for workers in the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries are based on cultural values, individual creativity and skills and talents that can generate income and create jobs by generating profits. the cultural and creative sectors employ more than 12 million people (employing 7.5% of the total workforce). their value in terms of sales of goods and services is eur 509 billion (5.3% of total gross value added in europe). in the 21st century europe, marked by the transformation to the digital economy, cultural and creative industries are increasingly replacing traditional production processes and value chains. the report focuses on, inter alia, the definition of social and economic value, impact, potential and the challenges facing the cultural and creative sectors today. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries have the potential to contribute to alleviating the current economic and employment challenges in the european union and to promoting sustainable growth that is conducive to social inclusion and innovation. to achieve this, it is necessary to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the creative and cultural sectors, in order to ensure that they are adequately funded, increase their competitiveness and enable them to realise their potential for creating high-quality jobs and growth. in this context, it is worth mentioning the need to raise awareness, especially among young people, of the possibilities of developing careers in craft and production occupations linked to the cultural and creative sectors. finally, it is essential to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to businesses, while promoting mixed financing, in particular in the form of public-private partnerships. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the joint report by itre and cult on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors. it is our next step in raising awareness of the crucial role these sectors play in the eu's social and economic development. the report properly defines the potential for generating growth and jobs in the cultural and creative industries, while highlighting their significant impact in areas such as new business models, creativity and innovation, and digitalisation and skills development. the report also places particular emphasis on building high-quality sectoral data sources that will allow better policy-making in the future, support innovation and training, and ensure adequate funding under eu programmes to support cultural and creative industries. in line with the recommendations outlined in the report, i consider it necessary to define specific indicators to monitor and analyse the cultural, economic and social impact of the cultural and creative sectors. in this context, i also consider it desirable to explore and identify alternative sources of data to complement and improve official statistics, given that the cultural and creative industries often use complex business models that can challenge traditional forms of analysis and funding.
after decades of soviet domination of the eastern european nations, the european union is now pushing for the guarantee of all sexual health services, with safe and legal abortion and sex education at the forefront. if you don't want putin to use such documents against the democratic aspirations of these nations, then please stop writing them. unless you're just editing it for putin.
in writing. ‒ stabilising the eu's neighbourhood is one of the key objectives of its foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy one of the tools is the eastern partnership established in 2009. when the strategic priorities of the european neighbourhood policy for 2014-2020 were announced, gender equality was emphasised as a cross-cutting issue. gender equality was also identified as a promising new area of cooperation in the declaration of the last eastern partnership summit. i share the view that empowering women and their active participation in social, political and economic life are in fact a prerequisite for the changes that are taking place. unfortunately, there is evidence that social discrimination and gender stereotypes are still common in the eastern partnership countries. the existence of stereotypes not only prevents women from being more involved in the labour market and political life, but also paves the way for social acceptance of gender-based violence and underreporting of domestic violence. the report aims not only to identify shortcomings and failures in the protection of women's rights, but also to highlight the obstacles to their empowerment and to show that greater gender equality would help to achieve the objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. on the horizontal issues, i fully support the theses put forward, but nevertheless, there are ideological and worldview statements in the document that raise doubts. i therefore abstained on this document.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution prepared by maria gabriel women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. as history teaches us, the transformation of developing countries is achieved with the significant participation of women, but later, when they achieve prosperity, their rights are often ignored. women's rights and equal opportunities are an important issue in the european union's social and economic policy. non-discrimination clauses therefore appear in agreements between third countries and the eu. it is important that women's rights are also high on the political agenda in our eastern neighbours, and that work on this is carried out in parallel with economic and financial policies. the report highlights that, although all the eastern partnership countries have developed strategies and plans to improve the situation of women, their presence in the public sphere and in decision-making positions is very limited. a 'double-load' model is also common, with women disproportionately doing more housework than men after working. the report condemns the prevalence of gender stereotypes that place women in a subordinate role and that negatively affect women's educational and career paths. i also supported the many references in the report to women's reproductive rights and the need for affirmative action legislation to help change this.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is enshrined in the constitutions and laws of all the eastern partnership countries, namely belarus, ukraine, moldova, georgia, azerbaijan and armenia. all these countries have also ratified the most important international conventions in this area. however, there is no doubt that it is difficult to speak of effective equality between women and men in the partnership countries. women are clearly absent from the power structures in the partnership countries. even if women do manage to occupy high-level political and decision-making positions, their abilities and competencies are questioned, including in public. the same is true of women's economic participation. existing gender stereotypes and discriminatory practices prevent women from participating fully in the labour market and underpin the gender pay gap, which remains extremely high. another problem is violence against women, including trafficking for sexual exploitation. unfortunately, many crimes against women go unreported because of the social permissiveness of such behavior. the european union and its member states should play an important role in the process of empowering and protecting the fundamental rights of women in the eastern partnership countries. however, the aim is not to enumerate shortcomings and errors, but to highlight the obstacles to achieving these objectives and to exchange best practices, the implementation of which must take account of the specificities of each country.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to work towards gender equality in the eastern partnership countries and we should discuss how best to contribute to this. unfortunately, the report imposes rules on third countries that may not encourage them to promote women's rights in line with their own models. i am not going to vote for the report because i think it is a very delicate matter.
the president-in-office of the council. i am very pleased that the majority view prevails here that the slovak presidency has brought concrete positive results to the union during the six months. and i believe that we have also managed to fulfill the slogan good idea slovakia. but i would say that these results could not have been achieved without the traditionally excellent cooperation with the european parliament. and the european parliament has been a difficult partner, and i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament on behalf of the entire slovak presidency, and i would also like to thank you personally, mr president, dear martin, for your cooperation, which has been very fair and very open. of course, it has often been very important to have the european commission at our back and i think the president of the european commission will confirm this if i say that our relations at a professional level have been, are and, i believe, will continue to be absolutely professional and in the interest of the cause. i would also like to thank you, jean-claude, for the cooperation we have enjoyed throughout your presidency and throughout your commission, because i know that without leadership no institution can function. at the same time, i would like to wish my maltese colleagues every success in taking over the presidency, and i believe that in their work, as well as in their cooperation with you, the european parliament, the joint declaration on legislative priorities for 2017, which we signed today, will serve them well. once again, thank you very much for all your contributions to the debate.
in writing. although it was slovakia's first presidency of the council of the eu, it must be admitted that this small country has done very well in meeting this difficult challenge, and this in a period of turbulent events in the world and in the union itself. the most important achievements of the slovak presidency include the launch of the long-awaited european border and coast guard, which is intended to provide a more effective eu response to illegal immigration. slovakia also managed to negotiate the eu budget for 2017 efficiently despite the resistance of some countries, which even threatened to veto it. bratislava can also credit its success to the signing of the ceta agreement with canada on 30 october, which allowed it to be applied provisionally until ratification. the committee on agriculture, which i chair, is particularly concerned about the adoption of the council conclusions on unfair practices in the food supply chain, which provide, inter alia, for the possibility of legislative action at union level. we have been calling for this in the european parliament for many years and now there is a real opportunity to act in this area. the slovak presidency has failed to do what it seems to have done, namely to bring the member states' positions on refugees and migration policy closer together, which could lead to further disputes in the future if the crisis escalates again.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the rapporteur and his fellow co-rapporteurs for this difficult report. how can one document describe all the human rights events for an entire year? it is an extremely difficult task, and the fact that we have over 850 amendments shows that we would like to include all the other issues. it was a difficult year because of human rights violations, war, terrorism, violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right to life, in different parts of the world, especially in the middle east. today we have awarded or honored two women, two yazidi women, nadia murad and lamiya aji bashar, with the sakharov prize: for freedom of thought, but also for their determination to bear witness to the persecution of this nation. i would say that it is good that the report in article 142 emphasizes the importance of the right to freedom of religion as a human right and condemns any acts of violence or persecution on this account. it is also good that the report in article 148 notes that for years christians have been the most persecuted group in the world. that's millions of people being persecuted and many people losing their lives. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. mr. chairman, please! i think these are just some of the catalogue of things that we should... (the president read out the minutes)
i pay tribute to the victims of the martial law in poland. every day in december brought new crimes. despite the report's claims, the european union is struggling to maintain uniform standards in its human rights system, both internally and externally. this is best demonstrated by the third, politically motivated debate on poland.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. ambassador, you are inclined to criticize other countries, it's not the first time, but justice would require loyalty to one's own country. what would you say about the human rights situation in your own country? does he present himself as perfectly as one might judge from your voice?
the question asked by raising the blue card. what do you think about the fact that in your country children are prevented from speaking polish if they come from broken marriages, and the jugendamt official thinks that this is somehow inconvenient for the control of the state administration. what do you think about the fact that in many german states the provisions of the polish-german treaty guaranteeing german citizens of polish origin the right to preserve their culture are still not being implemented? mr. poczle, really, you should try to protect these human rights first in your own country.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today the 2015 report on human rights and democracy in the world. it is very large, over 50 pages long. i welcome the fact that in paragraph 148 the european parliament stresses that christians are currently the most persecuted and threatened religious group in most countries of the world, including europe. that is a sad truth, and one we have repeatedly stressed in this house. it is a pity that so little has been done to improve the lot of christians and to prevent their persecution and murder. despite the fact that the report lists christians as the most persecuted group in the world, i see a huge asymmetry in the situation of other minorities. for example, we give much more space to the so-called lgbti sexual minorities, as mentioned in paragraphs 124, 125, 126, among others. the text of the amendments and other provisions on so-called safe abortion mean that many members may vote against the whole report.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! rarely is there a more curious and cynical idea than the proposal in the report on fundamental rights in the union to prevent newborn deaths by making so-called safe abortion easily available. how can democracy even function if sophistication pushes public debate to such an intellectual and moral level?
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! one remark and one controversy. i am very pleased that the report focuses on the key issues: religious freedom, protesting against persecuted christians, protecting the rights of refugees and combating human trafficking. it's a true barbaric plague of the modern world. but the report, and above all our discussion, should avoid bias and here again a polemic with mr lambsdorff, who did not answer my question and that of mr jurko. in poland, which you so freely criticize, there is very strong protection for national minorities: germans in poland have full schooling rights, their own schools, education, and even parliamentary representation. germany, on the other hand, does not fully recognise the rights of national minorities. so i invite you to poland to see the good examples that your country and europe could use.
in writing. as we do every year, we discuss the state of human rights in the world. at the same time, we rarely see the union itself contributing to their violation outside its territory. this is the case for private military and security companies from its territory. some eu member states are among the largest exporters of military and security services. these entities operate in a grey area of responsibility. the eu has excluded them from the provisions of the services directive and its representatives are quite arrogantly opposing the development of an international convention at the un that would introduce legal regulations and restrictions on their activities. the argument that existing soft law instruments, i.e. those which are not legally binding, such as the montreux document or the code of conduct for private security providers, are sufficient is not only ridiculous but already compromises the eu on the international stage. the european external action service has an unflattering role to play in this respect. i therefore expect the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to revise this position so that eu actors do not violate human rights outside the eu and the eu does not block the adoption of international regulations that aim to bring private military and security companies into the international legal framework.
madam president! the future of european cooperation depends on the mutual and solidarity-based partnership of our countries, but also on respect for the peoples of europe. the report contains very important statements, for example on the significance and sad prospects of the involvement of thousands of young european muslims in the forces of the islamic state's caliphate, or on the growing russian expansion in eastern europe. but the conclusions are fatally stereotypical: more power for the integrated eu institutions, but unfortunately this fatal tone of disregard, aggression, exclusion towards europeans who remain in opposition, in legitimate opposition to the authorities of the european union or to the governments that support them. ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain: the sooner the european establishment learns to respect the millions of europeans who disagree with its policies, the more bad news we will avoid in the future.
in writing. the situation around the european union is changing for the worse. large areas of north africa and the middle east are engulfed in war, and terrorist groups are increasingly infiltrating europe. other threats are emerging, such as the war in eastern ukraine and cyber attacks. we must therefore increase the eu's responsibility for our common security. i know there is no chance of creating a common european army, but we can take action in the eu that would improve our security more effectively. i see three such pragmatic ventures. first, a joint permanent headquarters for civil-military operations should be established in the european union. secondly, the union must respond more quickly to threats by using its own battle groups for joint missions and operations. finally, thirdly, a separate fund should be created within the eu to finance the common security and defence policy. i believe that these actions would increase the defence and security capacity of the european union.
mr president, central asia is of geostrategic importance to the eu and our partners in the region fully depend on the trade agreements with the eu. it is worth mentioning that in 2015 trade between the eu and uzbekistan was worth about eur 1.8 billion. partnership and cooperation agreements are non-preferential and ensure most-favoured-nation treatment prohibiting quantitative restrictions in bilateral trade. uzbekistan has been waiting for the extension of the provisions of its pca to bilateral trade in textiles since 2011. there was an important reason for this, but now we can see the improvement in the cotton production sector regarding forced and child labour. a dialogue involving stakeholders, civil society, uzbek authorities, european and international institutions, has been established and the recommendations from parliament’s interim report of 2011 have been fulfilled. moreover in 2014 uzbekistan became the first central asian country to agree to a decent work country programme with the ilo, the extension of which should be signed in 2017. with all this in force, i believe that we can fully support and give consent to the textile protocol and the accompanying resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its criticism of free trade agreements and services agreements, both in this chamber and in the capitals of europe. this wave is sweeping across europe, and it's actually hard to understand why. the protocol we are discussing today, the agreement we are discussing today, is the best example of how good civilizational effects can be achieved in countries where situations are unacceptable to european civilization and culture. forced labor or - worse - child labor is certainly one of them. how could we influence our partner if we did not trade with him? how could we get in if we didn't have a trade deal with him? how could we influence if we couldn't use this instrument in the form of protocol? today we have a situation where we can largely rejoice that child labor in uzbekistan has ended, even if there are some marginal isolated cases. tomorrow, i hope, we will rejoice that forced labor will also be abolished in this country. we have all this because of free trade agreements, and we need to expand them with the rest of the world.
mr president, i am in favour of giving consent to the protocol permitting the accession of ecuador to this trade agreement. in general, it will increase the eu presence in south america and, most importantly, it will improve our trade relations in the region. this agreement will complete the regional dimensions of the andean countries, which are now linked to the european union. also, the accession of ecuador should bring more integration among the three partners. we can see that ecuador is still benefiting, until the end of this year, from preferential access to the eu markets for its goods. if you look at ecuador and the global picture, this was reported in the resolution of november 2015, which confirms the progress made by ecuador in many areas, although some outstanding issues remain, such as complete press freedom. so it is a process and we have to be encourage this process. the conclusion of this process, with the provisional entry into force of the protocol, will create a more stable economic relationship, founded on the provisions of this agreement.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank all the people that responded to this very important debate. as you know, the common agricultural policy that was agreed in 2013 by the co-legislators reiterated in support of the market orientation of that policy. this is what the council and the european parliament decided, and, in any policy which is dependent on the market, price volatility is an inevitable feature. the last two years have tested the adequacy or otherwise of the measures, and we need – as several speakers have said here this evening – to work together to ensure that farmers are provided with the appropriate tools to deal with price volatility, and we need to learn and look at the market experience of the past two years in relation to what tools we require. in my opening remarks, i said that we must work at removing obstacles to the use of these market tools in the present cap. if, as mr dorfmann or mr de castro suggest, it is because of red tape, then we must make the policy simpler. simplification is something that i very much support, and i will do everything possible to reduce red tape in the agricultural sector, as i am already doing. of course it may also be – as ms girling said – that we have used all the tools that are available. if that is the case, we need collectively to be more imaginative and see if there are other proposals that we can make in this regard. next year’s communication provides an opportunity for this house and for the council, and i am committed to working constructively with all stakeholders to help our farmers in this regard. a number of speakers have referred to the need to ensure sustainable production, and i want to agree with mr ropė when he identifies small farmers as being central to the future of sustainable agricultural production and sustainable rural communities in europe. we need to ensure that farmers, who are our boots on the ground in the context of implementing environment and climate action, continue to be the custodians of our policy in our rural areas, and also the custodians of our rural environment. mr de castro also referred to the need to remove obstacles to such tools as the income stabilisation mechanism, and you and all members of the house will get an opportunity to assist me in a proposal in this regard in the omnibus regulation which is coming before the house in 2017. so i urge you to adopt this regulation, as mr dantin noted, to help farmers to get easier access to the income stabilisation tool and to get easier access to credit through the reforms that i am making and the changes in the financial instruments. despite any differences which may exist in this house and between our respective institutions, there is clear agreement across the board on the need to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain and to tackle the issue of unfair trading practices. i agree with what mr tarabella said in this regard. i would also remind the house that the council adopted council conclusions yesterday, which, along with the overwhelming vote of this parliament, are making a very important statement and contribution towards the need for the commission to come forward with proposals in the work programme of 2017 to try to deal with this issue of the position of the farmer in the food chain. i should also say that, despite the support that farmers get from the european union and our national governments to co-finance programmes, most farmers would like to get their income from the market. that means having access to the market, and getting a fair return from the market. so we need fair trade, not always free trade, and farmers are benefitting from well negotiated free trade agreements and access to third—country markets. we are making good progress in this regard, and i am confident that this trend will continue. we cannot continue to have farmers’ production in storage at the expense of the european union taxpayer all the time. we have to find outlets for that, internally and externally. in terms of achieving a fair return, i welcome the report of the agricultural markets task force. the commission is currently considering those recommendations very carefully, and this will inform the proposal i will make in 2017. i would like to remind mr serrão santos, that farmers in the azores under the posei scheme are getting at up to eur 250 extra per cow in the dairy sector if they wish to utilise that, in addition to voluntary coupled support from the portuguese government. these are instruments that are already available and which are being utilised by your regional government and your national government in portugal in order to assist your dairy farmers. finally, i would like once again to express my appreciation to ms delahaye and the shadow rapporteurs for the work done in producing this report. this will serve as very important information and recommendations to me in the context of the work programme for 2017 and the legislative proposals and measures that we will bring forward in the context of the position of the farmer in the food chain.
in writing. the economic situation of european farms is unfortunately far from stabilising. this is largely due to the specific nature of the sector, which is more dependent on natural factors than any other and these are difficult to predict. in addition, there are issues of changes in international trade and local demand. all this leads to high price volatility, which has negative consequences for both food producers and consumers. we therefore need effective measures to reduce price fluctuations as much as possible. i share the rapporteur's view that the risk management support currently offered by the cap under the second pillar is insufficient. risk management instruments need to be reviewed and, where appropriate, developed. the objective of market transparency should also be pursued to the greatest extent possible. the overriding objective of these actions should be to guarantee a decent level of income for farmers and to create a stable market for goods for consumers.
madam president, on csdp i reiterate the importance of reaching the nato defence expenditure target. on ukraine, with full respect for the dutch people, full ratification is a matter of urgency and necessity. on aleppo, there is crime against humanity going on there. we have to ensure that there is no impunity for those who are physically and politically responsible for it, regardless of rank and nationality.
the summit concludes a year of 2016 that was dominated by bad news from within and around the european union. the consolation prize may be news from the job market, which is indeed more alive than ever. the union has created eight million new jobs since 2013. another consolation may be the unexpected result of the british referendum in the form of increased trust in the european institutions. the agenda for the next summit is migration, security, opportunities for young people. it is indeed the decisive battlefield against populism and nationalism, which have been the cause of the greatest misery on our continent. in 2016, it has not only dictated the work programme, but also the tone of public debate, fears and the mood of europeans. i know it's not easy to dress up rational programs with emotions and get our message across to a younger generation who haven't felt firsthand the effects of nationalism and selfishness that have destroyed our continent. they are not a recipe for new, exciting visions, a re-imagining of europe. we have the right programmes, the slogans sound good too - valletta action plan, internal security strategy, defence union - but we have to prove that it works. the union must convince the average citizen of its usefulness, and that is what i wish for 2017.
madam president! we keep saying that we have many critical problems in the european union, but we also confirm that it is better than it was a year ago, in december 2015. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the slovak presidency for its six months of action in a difficult time. migration, security - both internal and external - energy security, the economy and employment are de facto key issues at the moment. many of these issues are common to us in the european union, because we have many issues that divide us. and i would like to say here that a major challenge for security and stability is also the difficult relationship with turkey when it comes to migration. turkey is a major partner both economically and militarily after all, it is one of the main partners in nato. at the same time, the union-turkey joint statement played a key role in the practical reduction of the flow of migrants to europe through the so-called balkan route. despite all the criticisms in this area, the recent attempted coup in turkey, but also the internal reaction of the authorities in ankara, put this cooperation to the test. the problem of immigration is not just a problem of the union. it is also a global problem and we have to keep emphasizing this as the source of effective response and this is where internationalization of the problem is needed. we must also count on the implementation of the valletta plans, including the acceleration of work on external investments, which can be very helpful.
in writing. in the context of the upcoming council meeting, i would like to draw attention to three issues: the european fund for strategic investments, the youth initiative and the situation in syria. as regards the extension of the european fund for strategic investments, i fully agree that this instrument is important in terms of stimulating economic growth in the union and competitiveness. however, one of its main objectives, i.e. to promote the quality education needed to stimulate economic growth, is not being achieved. supporting education is the best investment for jobs and growth. this is why we need projects to improve the quality of education and ensure that it is accessible to all groups in society. as regards youth initiatives, i call for more financial support for erasmus+, the eu's flagship mobility programme, to ensure its continued success and added value. finally, the situation in syria the growing number of casualties in aleppo is frightening. i therefore call on the ministers to take urgent action to provide the syrians with the necessary humanitarian assistance and to step up efforts to end this cruel war, which has already claimed at least thousands of lives.
in writing. the european council summit agenda includes all the relevant topics: the situation in syria, including russia's involvement, the agreement with turkey, a common migration policy, and initiatives to boost employment among young europeans. i would like to stress the importance of two of these topics. a set of concrete proposals implementing the provisions of the eu-nato joint declaration signed at the warsaw summit, including joint action to counter hybrid threats, the exchange of critical information between nato and the eu institutions and the integration of procedures to counter cyber threats, deserves support. cooperation with nato, which remains the foundation of our defence, is crucial to ensuring security, and i hope that we will finally see measurable results. the second security-critical element to be discussed will be the european defence action plan proposed by the european commission. it provides for three actions: the creation of a european defence fund to support defence research and development, the facilitation of investment in the defence sector and the strengthening of the single defence market. these are good proposals because in the medium and long term they will help us to make more efficient use of funds which do not currently sufficiently increase our security. it's time to do something.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion on insolvency proceedings and trustees, as it directly concerns poland and the protection of its economic interests. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a major reform of its national legislation on restructuring with effect from 1 january 2016 and requested amendments to the lists in the annexes to the regulation. the commission proposal and the proposed amendments are purely technical. they do not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation. therefore, the proposed proposal constitutes only a formal codification of the legislative text. it is important for poland to take urgent action on this issue, as it is clear that the failure to incorporate new types of proceedings quickly can have far-reaching negative financial consequences for cross-border creditors and debtors in polish restructuring and insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a major reform of its national legislation on restructuring with effect from 1 january 2016 and requested changes to the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation. the commission has examined whether the request submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has presented a proposal to the european parliament and the council accordingly. the annexes to a regulation can only be amended by a regulation, which must be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with the legal basis applied to the original regulation (article 81 tfeu). the proposal aims to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is aligned with the actual legal framework. it is important for poland to act urgently on this issue, as it is clear that the failure to include new types of proceedings in the annexes to insolvency regulation no 1346/2000 quickly could have far-reaching negative financial consequences for cross-border creditors and debtors in polish restructuring and insolvency proceedings. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a major reform of its national legislation on restructuring with effect from 1 january 2016 and requested changes to the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation. the commission has examined whether the request submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has presented a proposal to the european parliament and the council accordingly. the whole thing is purely technical, which is why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and the bilateral textile trade agreement. i believe that expanding cooperation in trade based on partnership will bring benefits to the economy and create new development prospects. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the associated countries associated with the european union, the outermost regions of the african continent, the mediterranean basin and the black sea, and the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean basin and the black sea. such measures to combat the use of children as cheap labour demonstrate the desire to develop cooperation and to adopt european standards. this also has an impact on the protection of children's rights. continued eu-uzbekistan talks are important to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the agreement. the commission and the council are also invited to initiate the procedure laid down in articles 2 and 95 of the cwc in order to adopt any necessary general and specific measures in the event of non-compliance with the commitment to eliminate child and forced labour.
in writing. ‒ mr tomasz piotr poręba (ecr), in writing. ‒ given the significant progress made in uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of legislation prohibiting the use of child labour, which has led to the near-total elimination of child labour, it is recommended that the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol be agreed. the granting of the consent will provide a positive signal to the government of uzbekistan to take further action to eliminate child labour and all other forms of forced labour and to further strengthen cooperation with the eu. a combination of dialogue and cooperation, as well as continued pressure on the government of uzbekistan from the eu, the ilo and the world bank, will continue to be needed to achieve this objective, and reserves the right to call on the commission and the council to initiate the procedure under articles 2 and 95 of the cwc to adopt all necessary general and specific measures in the event of failure to reach an undertaking to eliminate child and forced labour. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership between the eu and uzbekistan should be supported. cooperation can bring tangible benefits not only to uzbekistan but also to eu member states. the cultural exchange which is very widespread in our countries should also be extended to economic exchange. i voted to accept the deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and the bilateral textile trade agreement. i believe that expanding cooperation in trade based on partnership will bring benefits to the economy and create new development prospects. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the associated countries associated with the european union, the outermost regions of the african continent, the mediterranean basin and the black sea, and the countries of the former soviet union, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and the efta countries, the efta countries, the efta countries and the efta countries, members of the european economic area, and the efta countries, members of the european economic area, members of the european economic area and non-member countries, and associated countries, as well as to the implementation of the european semester. such measures to combat the use of children as cheap labour demonstrate the desire to develop cooperation and to adopt european standards. this also has an impact on the protection of children's rights. continued eu-uzbekistan talks are important to ensure effective implementation. the commission and the council are also invited to initiate the procedure laid down in articles 2 and 95 of the cwc in order to adopt any necessary general and specific measures in the event of non-compliance with the commitment to eliminate child and forced labour.
in writing. ‒ given the significant progress made in uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of legislation prohibiting the use of child labour, which has led to the near-total elimination of child labour, it is recommended that the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol be agreed. the granting of the consent will provide a positive signal to the government of uzbekistan to take further action to eliminate child labour and all other forms of forced labour and to further strengthen cooperation with the eu. a combination of dialogue and cooperation, as well as continued pressure on the government of uzbekistan from the eu, the ilo and the world bank, will continue to be needed to achieve this objective, and reserves the right to call on the commission and the council to initiate the procedure under articles 2 and 95 of the cwc to adopt all necessary general and specific measures in the event of failure to reach an undertaking to eliminate child and forced labour. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership between the eu and uzbekistan should be supported. cooperation can bring tangible benefits not only to uzbekistan but also to eu member states. the cultural exchange which is very widespread in our countries should also be extended to economic exchange. i voted to accept the deal.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusion of the eu-ecuador negotiations, i voted in favour of ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. the trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession to the agreement by other member states of the andean community. i believe that effective and rapid action is necessary in the case of ecuador, as ecuador will lose its gsp+ status on 31 december 2016. the commission has not received any comments from the exporting producers concerned. i am in favour of the swift implementation of this agreement, which will have a positive impact on accelerating the development of partnerships with important, like-minded and fast-developing countries in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain provisions thereof are applied pursuant to article 330 of that agreement between the european union and peru from 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia from 1 august 2013. article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession to the agreement by other member states of the andean community. on 17 july 2014, the european union and ecuador concluded negotiations on accession to the agreement. the gsp+ status of ecuador will be lost on 31 december 2016. the commission notes that the exporting producers concerned have not yet received any export refunds for the products concerned. the agreement should be a step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-developing countries in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, is an important step in the development of relations between the eu and ecuador, which has become an important regional partner with similar views. the agreement provides for the gradual opening of the market for goods, services, public procurement and investment, including the abolition of most tariffs. it therefore allows ecuador to maintain preferential access to the eu market, although the country is no longer eligible for gsp+ due to the fact that the world bank has reclassified it as an upper-middle income country. in addition, the agreement includes a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to guarantee predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and operators on both sides. the agreement will allow both parties to develop even closer bilateral relations and will provide impetus for further economic and political integration in the andean region. it will also provide an opportunity to strengthen the political dialogue between the eu and ecuador based on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the agreement should be a step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-developing countries in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific. trade relations will bring positive effects to both sides, which is why i voted to join the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing grounds in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. i consider that an update of the agreement is necessary to reflect the situation in the field of international fisheries law. the agreement provides for the promotion of conservation and management measures for fish stocks in the area and for the application of control measures in accordance with the rules of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. the report on this agreement aims to promote a political declaration reminding norway that all duties on food products, including fishery products, from the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on mutual access to fishing grounds in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden has been in force since august 1967. the agreement allows these three countries to access each other's fish stocks beyond 4 nautical miles from their national baselines. denmark joined the eu in 1973 and sweden in 1995, so the commission became responsible for managing the agreement on behalf of these two member states. the agreement is currently being updated to reflect developments in international fisheries law. the agreement provides for: the maintenance of the exclusive access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other's waters outside the area of 4 nautical miles from baselines; support for conservation and management measures for fish stocks in this area; the possibility of applying control measures in accordance with the rules of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state (this is already the case for fisheries in the north sea). i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement allows the three countries to access each other's fish stocks beyond 4 nautical miles from their national baselines. following the accession of the countries to the eu, the commission became responsible for managing the agreement on behalf of the two member states. the agreement is currently being updated to reflect developments in international fisheries law, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on mutual access to fishing grounds in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. i consider that an update of the agreement is necessary to reflect the situation in the field of international fisheries law. the agreement provides for the promotion of conservation and management measures for fish stocks in the area and for the application of control measures in accordance with the rules of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. the report on this agreement aims to promote a political declaration reminding norway that all duties on food products, including fishery products, from the eu must be in line with the agreement on the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to promote a political declaration reminding norway that all duties on eu food products (including fishery products) must be in line with the eea agreement. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement allows the three countries to access each other's fish stocks beyond 4 nautical miles from their national baselines. following the accession of the countries to the eu, the commission became responsible for managing the agreement on behalf of the two member states. the agreement is currently being updated to reflect developments in international fisheries law, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure an effective means of exchanging information, including personal data, i voted in favour of the report on the europol-georgia operational and strategic cooperation agreement. the development of operational and strategic cooperation serves to raise the level of security and contributes to increasing the effectiveness of counter-terrorism operations. georgia is a key partner of the eu in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are fundamental imperatives for the full achievement of the objectives of this cooperation. i am fully in favour of closer operational cooperation with georgia and therefore also in favour of the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and georgia. it is essential that europol deepen operational cooperation with georgia, a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership. security and the fight against crime are fundamental imperatives in order to achieve the objectives of this cooperation fully. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ europol needs to deepen operational cooperation with georgia. it is one of the european union's key partners in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are central to our cooperation. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ convinced of the effectiveness of the instruments relating to the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automotive, i voted in favour of its adoption. i fully support the efforts to implement policies that translate into growth and combat unemployment. i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument to implement such a policy. the proposed fund will help workers find new jobs and develop new skills when a major company closes a factory or relocates outside the eu as a result of a change in the structure of world trade, or when workers lose their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i believe that the strategy of supporting employees must be continuously strengthened and therefore i support the proposed solutions.
in writing. ‒ on 8 november 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of spain in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the bankruptcy and liquidation of bosal s.a., which has made the majority of the redundancies covered by this proposal and which is active in nace rev. 2 division 29 ( production of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) mainly in the region of valencia (comunidad valenciana es52), classified at nuts 2 level. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 and article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, the fund's resources may not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million (in 2011 prices). the corresponding amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a reserve. in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management for the purpose of implementing the fund, where the application is approved, the commission shall submit to the budgetary authority a proposal to implement the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding proposal for the transfer of appropriations. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of a change in the structure of world trade, such as when a large company closes a factory or relocates outside the eu, or when there is a global financial and economic crisis. any means of helping injured workers should be encouraged, which is why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ in view of the outdated nature and the unreasonableness of the application of the provisions of the regulation, i voted against the enf's proposal to reject the council's position. i am in favour of adopting the proposal to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardization of the accounts of railway undertakings. solutions for the compensation of costs incurred by railway undertakings were necessary in the 1960s when national railway undertakings acted on behalf of the state or another public authority. however, with the opening of the railway market and the separation of rail transport operations from infrastructure management, regulation (eec) no 1192/69 became incompatible with union law. the excessive number of regulations that are being deprecated should be reduced. compensation issues where they are still necessary and in accordance with union law should be incorporated into more relevant union legislation.
in writing. ‒ as regards the regulation on the standardisation of accounts, i support the repeal of this legal act, which aims to introduce greater transparency in the law applicable to the railway sector. compensatory payments made by the state to the infrastructure manager on the basis of the repealed regulation will be allowed on the basis of a different legal basis (article 8 of directive 2012/34/eu on the establishment of a single european railway area). i hereby endorse the compromise reached.
in writing. ‒ long-term provisions should be introduced, not as in the proposed interim document. the proposed rules are not very detailed and raise a number of legal doubts, especially as the current arrangements should be modern. that's why i didn't support the project.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position because i support the adoption of an agreement on the opening of national rail passenger markets and on the award of public service contracts, the so-called fourth railway package. i believe that the rail industry is a very important sector of the european union's economy, which brings benefits across borders and should therefore be encouraged. the agreement provides for the gradual opening of national rail passenger markets. this is the last segment of the rail transport market which has not yet been liberalised in most member states and is based mainly on direct award of public service contracts. it should be stressed that the public authorities will continue to be able to directly award public service contracts for rail services, provided that the service providers meet objective objectives and efficiency and effectiveness criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr van de campa because i support the general direction of the changes aimed at introducing a single railway market in europe. anyone who has had the opportunity to use trains in different european countries will be aware that there are still huge differences in both the quality and availability of services. this situation persists despite the efforts of the commission and the member states and despite some progress already made. however, it should be noted that this is due to a variety of reasons and that the quality and availability of rail passenger services is affected not only by the number of operators but also by the type of management, state support, the level of implementation of reforms and many other factors. i therefore believe that we must continue to work towards an appropriate level of competition, but this process must be balanced and the highest possible level of service must be maintained. the changes must be made with the passengers in mind, while at the same time improving the quality of the rolling stock, the service and the network, and reducing fares, which are still too high in many cases and make road transport more competitive.
in writing. ‒ i support the compromise solutions that have been worked out on the political pillar of the fourth railway package. as regards the pso regulation, i am pleased to maintain the possibility of direct award of contracts in exceptional cases, to maintain the favourable definition of 'local authorities', which will allow the local governments of the voivodships to directly award pso contracts to internal entities (to transport companies established by them, such as mazowieckie railways or wielkopolskie railways) the option of providing access to the rolling stock, ensuring the possibility of implementing long-term pso contracts already concluded (for the time they have been concluded). i hereby endorse the compromise reached.
in writing. ‒ the project has a number of errors which, when accumulated, give a negative picture of the changes. the basic mistake is that the railway is always a strategic state company. it is therefore up to each country to decide whether it wants to open up its industry to private capital. that's why i didn't support the proposed changes.
in writing. ‒ recognising the potential and untapped opportunities in the rail sector, i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position. i agree with the proposal to amend directive 2012/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 21 november 2012 on the establishment of a single european railway area with regard to the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and railway infrastructure management. i believe that the proposed changes will contribute to the development of the railway sector and will improve the quality of the services provided. the amendments to the directive cover a number of actions to increase the attractiveness, innovation and competitiveness of union rail transport. it provides for the establishment of a law giving european companies the possibility to operate throughout the eu and for stricter competition rules. the regulation introduces provisions to standardise the rules in the railway sector and to increase the transparency of the actions undertaken.
in writing. ‒ innovation in rail transport in the european union is a very important topic and needs to be approached with caution. the fourth railway package is about reform and in my view, it is a huge opportunity for the national railways of the member states. it is also a response to consumer needs, aimed at reducing travel costs, ensuring safety or opening up new routes. opening up rail transport to other countries could also lead to the creation of new railway companies that will help europe in an era of rising unemployment. the introduction of open tendering will give each carrier a chance to present its offer, which in my view is fair competition. the adoption of this package will also help to complete the process of creating a single railway area, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as regards the governance directive, i am pleased that there are no provisions requiring radical, costly and time-consuming structural changes to the railway market in poland, requiring full separation between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings and between the infrastructure manager and the maintenance companies, by favourably wording the definition of 'vertically integrated undertaking', excluding regional networks with a track gauge different from the dominant network of the member states in the eu (in the case of pkp lhs) from the scope of the directive, i.e. from the obligation to manage the infrastructure for the provision of rail services. i hereby endorse the compromise reached.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package, which was presented by the european commission, has a number of irregularities. the project introduces unnecessary bureaucracy and decision-making chaos. importantly, it does not contain detailed provisions that could reduce the entrepreneurial spirit of railway companies, which is why i voted against the project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading prepared by david-maria sassolego. i believe that these recommendations form a pragmatic pillar for the railway package. after several years of discussion, it was rightly agreed that, in addition to the common eu rules, the specificities of each country must be taken into account. in the case of poland, this means, for example, that regional undertakings which provide local transport services within individual voivodships are allowed to develop. this is very important for the many passengers who use local services to get to work, school or the doctor every day. however, this way of thinking should also lead to increased eu funding for local transport. the eu's investments, mainly in high-speed rail, will not solve other important social needs. these local, daily connections are what most people care about.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation on the establishment of a legal framework for access to the market for port services and financial transparency for ports. i believe that the final proposal for amendments, as a result of a fair consensus, leads to greater access for service providers to the port services market and to the establishment of common rules on financial transparency and charges. it is particularly important for me that the regulations should provide for the widest possible powers for the member states. the amendments proposed by the ecr guarantee, inter alia, the removal of provisions empowering the commission to adopt delegated acts, the freedom to determine the most appropriate form of charging by ports, the possibility for member states to address the commission on the exclusion of private ports from the application of certain regulatory measures and the adequate protection of smaller ports from the negative effects of stringent rules.
in writing. ‒ after 15 years of work, a balanced report on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports has been adopted. i am glad that in the course of the work, and especially in this term of the european parliament, your rapporteur has been able to be persuaded to open up and accept the arguments of all the parties to the dialogue. one of the most important proposals is to recognise the autonomy and self-reliance of port authorities, while at the same time emphasising financial transparency, especially in the area of public aid. the important thing is that the 'one size fits all' approach has been abandoned, which is why i supported the report, as did most members.
in writing. ‒ in the course of the work on the regulation, solutions have been developed which are in the interests of poland, such as the elimination of the obligation to appoint an independent body to monitor and supervise the application of the regulation; the exclusion of transhipment terminals and passenger handling and piloting services from the main chapter of the proposed regulation - on the rules for the provision of port services and from the transitional provisions imposing the obligation to adapt the contracts governing port services to the new rules; the significant reduction of the scope of application of the regulation with regard to dredging services; the extension of the period of application of the regulation - up to 24 months from its publication; the exclusion of the power to issue implementing and delegated acts by the ec; in particular, the fact that the maritime regulation should not in any way infringe the legal systems governing port services in the member states and should allow for different structures to be applied in the member states. i hereby endorse the compromise reached.
in writing. ‒ after reading the biography of mr johan parts, which testifies to his wealth of experience and competence, i supported his candidacy for the court of auditors. the candidate shall be a representative appointed by the government of the republic of estonia. mr parts has held the offices of auditor-general (1998-2002), prime minister (2003-2005) and minister for economic affairs and communications (2007-2014). the hearing, which is one of the steps in the appointment procedure, was not controversial. i therefore consider that the application meets the formal requirements.
in writing. ‒ after a long delay, the government of the republic of estonia has decided to appoint juhana parts as the estonian representative to the european court of auditors. a lawyer by training, mr parts has held the offices of auditor-general (1998-2002), prime minister (2003-2005) and minister for economic affairs and communications (2007-2014). i always support the nominations of the member states, and i have hereby endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amendment to the legal basis following the periodic evaluation of the rules for the management of the research fund for coal and steel. the fbip programme is a continuation of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc), which expired in 2002. the programme is financed by the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets of the now defunct egtc. the fund provides around eur 50 million per year to finance research and development and innovation in the coal and steel sectors (72.8% for the steel sector and 27.2% for the coal sector). the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. the importance of financing is very important in relation to the nature of the polish raw material economy and the mining sector. this is linked to the possibility of developing knowledge and fostering innovation in a sector that is of great importance for poland.
in writing. ‒ according to the commission, the purpose of the proposal is to change the legal basis following the periodic evaluation of the rules for the management of the research fund for coal and steel (the 'ref' programme). the european parliament must be consulted on this occasion. the rapporteur member proposes to agree to the change of legal basis. the eu has been supporting research in the fields of coal and steel since the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951. when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make the assets (and the accrued interest) available to the research fund for coal and steel (the 'fbwis' programme). the programme is financed by the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets of the (defunct) egtc. it shall be managed by the commission. the fbip is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed separately. it provides around eur 50 million per year to finance research and development and innovation in the coal and steel sectors (72.8% for the steel sector and 27.2% for the coal sector). an association of industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across the european union, with the aim of advancing knowledge and fostering innovation in the sector. the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to change the legal basis following the periodic evaluation of the rules for the management of the research fund for coal and steel. the programme shall be complementary to horizon 2020 and shall be managed separately. it provides around eur 50 million per year to finance research and development and innovation in the coal and steel sectors. an association of industrial partners, leading research centres and universities from across the european union, with the aim of advancing knowledge and fostering innovation in the sector. the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's human rights and democracy policy for 2015. i believe that the report, although it deals with very important issues relating to the protection of human rights, contains problematic sections in its substance which raise a number of questions. i am deeply convinced that development and human rights are interdependent and that respect for and protection of human rights are essential to reducing inequalities and achieving the sustainable development goals for all people. unfortunately, the discrepancies and the points of dispute in the report have led me to abstain from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's human rights and democracy policy for 2015. we celebrated international human rights day a few days ago, so today's discussion on the state of human rights in 2015 is a perfect time to reflect on this topic. the universal declaration of human rights has been in force for nearly 70 years, but i feel that in the face of brutal conflicts and rising violence in the world, the collective struggle to uphold these rights has long since been less important and more necessary. issues such as the right to life and security, freedom of religion, assembly, and the prohibition of torture guarantee people a peaceful and dignified existence in their countries of residence and reduce the need for often dangerous and precarious migration. i therefore believe that the european union must fight with full energy and determination for the respect of universal human rights in the world. in this context, the effective implementation of the action plan for human rights and democracy 2015-2019 is of particular importance.
in writing. ‒ the comprehensive report on human rights and democracy in the world (2016/2219 (ini)) deserves to be appreciated and supported. the report highlights the importance of international agreements and institutions for ensuring respect for human rights, annual reports and reports prepared at the level of the european union, and the inclusion of human rights and democratic principles in the foreign policy negotiations of the eu member states and the union itself. the report draws attention to the victims of armed conflicts and refugees, and the importance of cooperation with countries of origin and transit, which allows migration policy to be implemented more efficiently, migration flows to be managed and the most vulnerable to be better protected. it called on the eu to encourage third countries to sign the palermo protocol against the smuggling of illegal immigrants and recalled the valletta summit agreements. the report addresses the situation of children, whose numbers are increasing among refugees, including unaccompanied children, and children who are missing or separated from their parents, and calls for adequate health, social and educational care and protection from violence. i support most of the comments and recommendations in the report and the call for member states to implement the eu action plan on human rights 2015-2019.
in writing. ‒ the report makes positive reference to assistance to internally displaced persons in ukraine and the protection of human rights defenders and journalists worldwide. but there are also many aspects that are problematic. unfortunately, much of the report also focuses on asylum and migration, and it instructs member states on family reunification and opening up legal migration routes. the report calls for, among other things, free and high-quality education, healthcare and housing for refugees, as well as access to the labour market. the section on women's rights calls for the right to access safe and legal abortion. in view of the comparable number of positive and negative aspects of the report, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ protecting human rights and promoting democracy in the world are priorities not only for the european parliament but also for the european union as a whole. the beliefs in this area are many and without increased efforts on the part of the member states and the community, it will not be possible to effectively place human rights and democratic values at the centre of their relations with their foreign partners. to ensure that human rights continue to be mainstreamed in the external aspects of eu policies, particular emphasis must be placed on those areas that require renewed political commitment and additional efforts to support local actors. it is also essential to prevent and redress human rights violations during conflicts and armed crises. the european union needs to be more coherent in its response to such strategic policy areas as migration, trade and the fight against terrorism, and to deepen the effectiveness and improve the performance of the union's human rights instruments. the challenges to human rights in key areas such as freedom of expression, non-discrimination, gender equality and the promotion of economic, social and cultural rights are enormous. while supporting the report, i also expect the european union to make a more determined effort.
in writing. ‒ the report makes positive reference to assistance to internally displaced persons in ukraine and the protection of human rights defenders and journalists worldwide. unfortunately, the report's themes overlap to a very large extent with those of the libe committee, which is largely concerned with asylum and migration. the report also advises eu member states on family reunification and opening up legal migration routes. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ the issue of human rights is one of the eu's priorities, which is why an annual review of eu policy in this area is important and much needed. as chair of the ep delegation for relations with belarus, i pay particular attention to the human rights situation in belarus. unfortunately, it's not a good one. belarus is the last country in europe to use the death penalty. in november, more executions were carried out. i am glad that the situation in belarus has not escaped the attention of this report. the european parliament will consistently call on the belarusian authorities to adopt a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, which is the first step in the process of its total abolition. the activities of the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, are also very important in this context. i look forward to a fruitful cooperation in this area.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect the sovereignty of the member states and the inviolability of their competence in the field of foreign and security policy, i abstained from the vote on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the lisbon treaty sought to increase the coherence and visibility of the common foreign and security policy. the development of the common security and defence policy, the creation of the european external action service and the establishment of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy are a continuation of this strategy to strengthen the eu's role on the world stage. given the current volatile situation of the terrorist threat and the real risk of war in europe, i believe that the eu's foreign and security policy can be an important tool for the pursuit of multilateral, shared interests. however, i also believe that it cannot replace the possibility for member states who decide to do so to pursue their own independent policy in these areas.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the cfsp in the context of the current crisis situations in the eu's neighbourhood and beyond, and assesses current and future threats to european security and aspirations. the rapporteur welcomes the eu as a global power and a forerunner of international diplomacy, and calls on the member states to stop looking at foreign and security policy from a 'limited national perspective'. the rapporteur calls for a strengthening of the cfsp based on the three pillars defence, deterrence and response while calling for a similar strengthening of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the report made a number of other recommendations, including the development of a defence white paper, increased parliamentary scrutiny of the cfsp, strengthening the eu/eea diplomatic arm, and a review of eu relations with russia. i believe that the eu's foreign and security policy can be an important tool for pursuing multilateral, shared interests. however, we also believe that it can never replace the ability of a member state to pursue its own independent policy in these areas, as soon as it decides to do so. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the european union today faces unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, and organised crime. unfortunately, these conflicts have direct and serious consequences for the security and well-being of european citizens, as they increasingly engulf the eu, whether in the form of terrorism, mass movements of refugees or disinformation campaigns designed to divide our societies. however, this situation also provides an opportunity to improve the way the eu works and to strengthen cooperation between member states. without strong national commitment, co-responsibility, political will and leadership, the eu's common foreign, security and defence policy cannot be effectively implemented. of course, there is no doubt that nato is the foundation of collective security in europe. however, the declaration on cooperation between nato and the eu adopted at the warsaw summit is welcome. i fully support deeper cooperation between nato and the eu on security, as a stronger nato and a stronger eu reinforce and complement each other.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the cfsp in the context of the current crisis situations in the eu's neighbourhood and beyond, and assesses current and future threats to european security and aspirations. e. brok welcomes the eu as a global power and a forerunner of international diplomacy, and calls on the member states to stop looking at foreign and security policy from a 'limited national perspective'. i believe that the eu's foreign and security policy can be an important tool for pursuing multilateral, shared interests. but it cannot replace the ability of a member state to conduct its own foreign and security policy. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ the elmar brok report is an important document because it provides a holistic view of the community's foreign policy. the analysis of the situation is reliable, in-depth, but also critical in many places. it is important that the union institutions are able to assess their own actions objectively, including those that have not been entirely successful. i am pleased to draw attention to the problem of disinformation by third countries and to the need to counter this phenomenon. this also includes the threat of cyberattacks. here too, we need to do more to protect data and ensure that we have a secure and sustainable access to the network. i welcome the strong declaration of support for the eu enlargement process and for close cooperation with the eastern partnership and the balkan countries. strong defence is listed as one of the three pillars of the eu's external action. the so-called defence package presented in november is a step in the right direction. i hope that we will not end up once again creating and accepting a good description of reality, which is not something that community policy makers can do much about.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the instruments of the common agricultural policy to limit price volatility on agricultural markets, as the amendment to the report submitted by the polish delegation to the ecr was not taken into account. amendment which emphasises that direct payments should remain an instrument of the cap after 2020. the rejection of the amendment, while recognising the potential of long-term contracts and the possibility of blocking production prices for a certain period of time in order to neutralise the impact of volatility, was decisive for my decision in this case.
in writing. ‒ the concept of price volatility in agriculture means significant changes in the prices of agricultural products in a given year. farmers often face significant price fluctuations for their agricultural products. this creates financial uncertainty for farmers' incomes and may put them at risk, as their incomes are less predictable and they may be exposed to sudden price falls. in addition, this phenomenon reduces the opportunities for long-term investment, especially by young farmers. agriculture is also exposed to price volatility due to climatic and weather factors and changes in world trade, especially with russia and china, and the resulting surplus of goods on the european market. the amendment submitted by the pis delegation, which emphasised that direct payments should remain an instrument of the cap after 2020, was considered by the rapporteur to be inconsistent with the report and was rejected. i hereby abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ agricultural activity is dependent on biological processes and therefore highly dependent on climatic conditions and plant and animal diseases. of course, these natural factors are beyond the farmer's control. however, price volatility is increasingly affected by factors such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, greater supply volatility due to climate instability, and fragile food supply imbalances. the change in profitability for agricultural holdings is therefore more difficult to predict than for enterprises in other sectors of the economy. a more explicit and coherent policy strategy, with targeted instruments at union and national level, is therefore necessary to ensure a multifunctional, sustainable agricultural production across the union. in particular, further development of climate, health and economic risk management instruments, in particular the different types of agricultural production insurance or individual reserve and mutual investment fund mechanisms, is necessary to limit the effects of price volatility and to support future farm management. it is equally important to take action to raise the awareness of farmers and agricultural organisations of the opportunities for modernisation and to increase the competitiveness of farms.
in writing. ‒ direct payments should remain an instrument of the common agricultural policy beyond 2020. unfortunately, the rapporteur considered this case to be inconsistent with the report. i therefore abstained.
madam president, commissioner, the greek economy has been in crisis for eight years, being unable to return to sustainable growth. a lot of blame for this unprecedented failure is routinely put on the european institutions and the so-called austerity measures, but the truth is that the necessary structural reforms in greece have never been fully implemented. they have been incomplete, partial and delayed, and the damage has been further exacerbated by unrealistic promises made by populist politicians. if economic growth is to be restored, more flexibility is needed in the labour market. the eu should stand ready to help greece with the european youth initiatives and programmes aimed at increasing mobility and employability, but the responsibility for implementing reforms is entirely on the greek government. let me repeat once again that there is no obligation for greece to accept financial assistance from outside. but if greece wants to use other countries’, other member states’ taxpayers’ money, it has to reform in order to guarantee that this money is repaid back on time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, thank you for your question. of course i am of the opinion that greece should be subject to the same rules as other countries. that includes also the rules of the stability and growth pact, which are the rules, by the way, that greece has violated for a number of years. now, on the other hand, as far as the reforms are concerned, as i said, they have been implemented late and slowly, and this is the reason for the lack of result. if you want to have, indeed, conditions conducive for investment, as you are interested in, and more job creation, we have to be consistent in implementing those reforms.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the situation of the greek labour market is the worst in the union. despite some progress, more than 23% of the country's citizens are still unemployed, and nearly 17% have been out of work for more than a year. most worryingly, however, nearly half of young greeks are not in permanent employment. so it's good that last week we were able to reach an agreement on the extension of the loan repayment period by athens and the waiver of some of the interest. it has long been known that without debt restructuring, greece will not be able to return to growth. however, the entry into force of the agreement is conditional on athens implementing labour market reforms, which may contribute to further unemployment growth in the short term. i understand the concerns of the people of this country, who after years of sacrifice still see no clear prospect of improvement. but i come from a country that, in the midst of an economic transformation, had to make radical changes to its labour market, which resulted in massive unemployment. greece, like poland in the early 1990s, has no other way and certain decisions must be taken. it is necessary to support the government in athens with the decision to restructure the debt. without it, as the international monetary fund has already pointed out, the situation in that country will not improve.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. 35 years ago, on december 13th, under the cover of night, the communist government declared war on its own people. it was a dark card of polish history. i was organizing a resistance with students at the university of gdańsk. it was a naive barricade, full of a sense of vulnerability to the tanks, but also full of a sense of purpose to this protest and hope that it would bear fruit. and we have a free poland in a united europe. it's a good opportunity to thank all those who cared about poland's fate, who helped us on our way to freedom. yesterday, 35 years after martial law was declared and 27 years after independence, tens of thousands of people took to the streets to protest the abuses of power. this power comes from a democratic mandate, but a mandate of less than 20% of the voting population does not justify a progressive coup d'état against the institutions of the rule of law, civil society, a healthy economy. it doesn't justify ruining poland's standing in the world. the list of abuses is growing. yesterday was a sad day for poland, because the new assembly law is suppressing freedom of assembly - a fundamental right that solidarity fought for. the list goes on and on, and one can point to the following objectives of this public trial: territorial self-government, an independent judiciary... all this is perfectly clear to the democratic world on both sides of the atlantic. the brainwashing mission carried out by some public media in poland does not reach strasbourg and brussels. anyone who distorts the polish reality here loses credibility, also in this forum. poland has been mentioned five times in the european parliament, so we are the sick link of this community. the whole of poland is paying the price. this great collective work of millions of poles, which is the poland of the quarter century, does not deserve to pay such a high price for the abuse of power. that is why we will bear witness to the truth. we will be the voice of millions of people who know that the principles written into our treaties and our constitution are there to protect civil liberties, a healthy economy, a healthy public and social order. we will be the voice of millions of people who feel at home in the european union, who feel at home in it, and who see the european union as a guarantee of our security and our development opportunities.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. well, i'm afraid you're doing the orwellian spectacle again. i hope the last one, even though he knows this room, never knows. as before, this whole decision to debate poland is pointless, unfair, extremely biased and unsupported. i don't know how in such a short time i'm supposed to undo all the untruths that have been told. there is no problem, ladies and gentlemen, with the assembly law. there is no one. am i making myself clear? no, there are no restrictions on anyone's right to demonstrate in poland neither individuals, nor groups, nor organizations. there is no one! then why are you bothering people? how can you be so out of touch with the facts? shame on you! you can't do that! some remarks here were about women's rights in poland and about the istanbul convention. ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to violence against women, poland is last in europe in this disgraceful ranking. in last place in europe! your country, mr president timmermans, is very high up in that hierarchy. so maybe we'll just take countries like the netherlands, like belgium and stop talking about poland. come to poland maybe you will learn how to take care of women's rights. they say it's never too late to learn. this may not be the rule for the european elites, but i hope that something will change. mr president, you are insisting with a stubbornness that i cannot understand on the constitutional tribunal, demanding that - well, that is what it really comes down to - that this tribunal be dominated by the nominees of one political party. this surgery was done in a way that was, to put it mildly, not entirely legal at the end of the previous term in the previous government, and you didn't react at the time. why didn't you respond? why didn't the commission respond? i'll tell you why. because it was your side. i can understand why you think that institutions, including polish ones, should be dominated by one side of the political debate. the european union has been governed by one political constellation since time immemorial, and the states have become so accustomed to it that if there is any difference, they treat it as an anomaly. mr. president, believe me: if there are disputes in the constitutional court, then maybe it's good. if lawyers differ, that's good, right? do you think that in this case one choir of one-party nominees should rule, exercise control over the constitution in poland? moreover, a similar attitude is characteristic of the venice commission, which visited poland for the first time in february this year and did not even dare to meet with the judges of the constitutional court, who have a different opinion. it just didn't count, and their written opinion was thrown out. how am i supposed to - excuse me - believe in the credibility of the venice commission? what kind of customs are these? and don't tell me you're here to talk about freedom and justice, because that's the last thing you care about. you mean - i repeat - the preservation of a monopoly of one party. i don't know how long you've been talking about european values here, but the truth is that you have less and less in common with those values. you're not following the treaties. mr. president, you are not abiding by the treaties! this whole procedure that you and your colleagues have instituted against poland is extra-treaty. you're completely ignoring this. you don't respect the principle of subsidiarity, you don't respect the principle of having a view other than your own, you don't respect the principle of rational discussion, you don't respect the roman principle of listening to the reason of the other side. you don't follow another roman rule that no man can be judge in his own case. this alienation of the european elites, the eu elites, from european culture, which we have been witnessing for some time, is a deeply saddening and fatal fact. i have recently written a lengthy letter to you with my colleague, mr tomáš porába, pointing out the glaring errors - i repeat: glaring errors - in your position and that of the european commission, and not in the matter of interpretation. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. you, by your own custom and the custom of your colleagues, have completely ignored it. either you don't understand them, or you're pretending not to. it's the old way of pretending something isn't there. just like the venice commission pretended there were no other judges to talk to. right, how simple does it all look when you don't have to answer arguments, you don't have to argue? - i know. you don't have to compromise, you can just sing the same aria over and over again to a cheering audience. but this is not a political conversation, this is not a debate, this is not any way to resolve a dispute. all of this is, i'm afraid, a fragment of a larger whole. the european union is increasingly unstable, and the state bears a large part of the responsibility for this. you antagonize societies, you deepen divisions, not only in poland. look at how they cook in most european countries. instead of making allies, seeking support, you are producing enemies at an ever-increasing rate. the enemies - i say - not the reformers like myself or my colleagues in my group who want to reform the union. but this can't go on forever. well, how long is this process going to last, the process of generating a generation of new enemies who want to break up the european union from within? what is your answer to that? more of the same, right? more of the same. this could all end badly. so, in the end, what can i do? i can appeal to some authority. i dedicate to you, mr. president, and to you, the famous phrase from the old testament, from the book of proverbs: "pride goes before a fall, and a haughty spirit before a stumbling block". just to make myself understood: "pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall". (applause from some quarters, murmurs of dissent from others)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i think this is a good example of what i'm talking about. i understand that you believe abortion is a human right, and you may believe that. however, i would like to point out that these matters are not decided at the level of the european union, but at the national level. that is the sole responsibility of the state. i'm not going to get into a moral debate with you; i don't think you're going to do very well. i just wanted to formally reply that this is the sole responsibility of the national parliament, not yours or this house.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if you take what you just said seriously, it would seem that there is some powerful conspiracy across europe against the government in warsaw, which seems to be untrue. do you admit - and these are my questions - that this hated and ugly europe, which wants so badly to destroy our homeland, enjoys the greatest support among all european countries in poland, among polish citizens? more than eighty percent of poles support our country's presence in the european union. and the second question is: will you still claim that the three judges who were duly elected by the sejm of the previous term are judges who are supposed to form some mythical majority (we don't know whose) because they are duly elected judges?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. it is true that in poland we have very strong support for the european union, but if the commission, including president timmermans, continues to do what it is doing, over time that support will certainly decline. and you can see it now. can you answer that? i know it's hard to talk to you at all. madam president, would you kindly call your colleagues to order? the kind of comments that are starting to come out about the european commission, about some of our colleagues - i won't name them - would not have come out a year ago, and it's all because of your hard work. but i think you have the wrong idea about what happened in the courtroom, because the courtroom... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! i wanted to apologize to our colleague soraya post for the arrogant behavior of professor legutka in answer to her question, which is a very important question for poles in our country.
i am addressing myself to you, madam president, because if you wanted to ask professor legutki to answer three questions and you interrupted him after the first question, i would ask you, as president, to allow the answers to be given to the questions which you are also seeking as the chairman of these discussions.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. well, i don't know how many times i have to say this. we're at the lowest point in europe. the istanbul convention has nothing to do with it. if they had anything in common, your countries would have a very low level of violence, and it's very high. as for the constitutional court, mr president timmermans, no judgment of the constitutional court said anything about the three judges who were elected. the constitutional court is talking about laws, not elections. the three-judge question came up in the ruling. the reasoning of the sentence is not part of the law. i know this may be new information to you, mr. chairman, but i assure you it is.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i can repeat what i've already said. we have two main enemies: one is ignorance, the other is prejudice. it's very difficult to fight.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. mep janusz lewandowski said today that the european parliament is looking at aleppo. he should be looking at the streets of warsaw. is that an opinion you can trust? does it build credibility? do not all the untruths that are being told about poland ridicule this house? the commissioner says he's in conflict with the democratically elected polish government. this is a really sneaky, sneaky move. a crawling attempt to overthrow the democratically elected government of poland.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. soldiers armed to the teeth patrolling the streets of cities, armored transport vehicles, reinforced police forces, checks at stations and airports, an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty, a prolonged state of emergency. you'd think it was poland thirty-five years ago, but no, it's france and belgium today. i look around and i see people being murdered on the streets of cities, i see terrorists shooting at passers-by, raping women, driving trucks into crowds. is that poland? no, it's sweden, france, germany, and so on. i look further and i see the repeated elections due to massive irregularities, i see the government disregarding democracy and ignoring the referendum results. is that poland? no, it's austria, the uk. aren't these problems that we should really be debating and solving? ladies and gentlemen! let's be honest, poland doesn't need your comments, your false concern, your advice from the ceiling. take care of the mess in your states, in your streets, in your communities. poland doesn't need your hypocritical democracy anymore. what does poland really need? the freedom. poland needs freedom and poland must take the side of freedom. we need freedom from eu regulations, we need freedom from the surveillance of eu officials, we need freedom from the comments of eu members - some of them call themselves poles - we need freedom from the comments of eu commissioners. in short, poland needs freedom from your whole european union. poland needs freedom to work quietly, to run a business quietly, to live safely according to its own traditions and history. you who attack poland, you are on the side of oppression, i am on the side of freedom. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the hospital. i'm defending freedom. firstly, the values of europe, not the eu. roman law, greek ethics, latin civilization, christian culture, not the ever-changing laws that impose slavery on normal, ordinary, law-abiding citizens. that's what i'm defending, ma'am.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. critical remarks about poland's internal affairs are unacceptable, because they violate the principle of state sovereignty, and what is worse, they violate the principle of self-determination of peoples. that is why the tendency to withdraw from the european union is becoming more and more pronounced. the nations want to decide for themselves. my fellow citizens! faith works miracles. you didn't believe you could escape the pressure from the east. we're out of here. today you don't believe that you can escape the pressure and the pressure of the west. we're gonna get out, you just have to believe it, and we're gonna get out. we will be a free country and a free people. and finally, i call to you, poland, my homeland. get up off your knees! we'll be free, we'll be hosts in our own home, and we'll make this house our own. just get off your knees. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. poland is not turning back from the path of progress. poland is just beginning to find its way on this path of progress. she is looking for a way to decide for herself and for us, poles, to be able to arrange our own home in the order we want, and to develop and live in accordance with the culture, traditions and customs we want, and there is nothing wrong with that. if you loved poland, you would also love our willingness to live in our own country.
what can you say in a minute, when you know nothing about poland. for example, women in poland have a much greater say in politics than in any other european country. for example, do you know (you are a democrat i am talking to you in t veldt and i am not a democrat) that in poland there is a slight majority of men who are in favour of abortion, and among women there are definitely more women who are against abortion than among men? it's women who are against abortion, not men. in poland, i can call afropolka the word that is used in this country, and if i use that word here, i will be fined three thousand euros. poland has freedom of speech, but here it is not. in poland, the people who ruled under communism are legally protected by this tribunal, and indeed the current government is breaking the rules because it wants to introduce a slightly different order. the court has lost the moral support of the country.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, the words of the master, the conductor of what is happening in poland are missing. jarosław kaczyński said, and i quote, about the refugees: 'there are already signs of the emergence of very dangerous diseases that have not been seen in europe for a long time: cholera in the greek islands, dysentery in vienna, various types of parasites and protozoa that are not dangerous in the bodies of these people, but can be dangerous here.' on the judgments of the constitutional tribunal: 'these are private acts which may under no circumstances acquire legal force by publication.' on the opposition's actions: "well, it's all nonsense" something between a disease of some kind and a burlesque. there's no other way to say it. and the recipe for the opposition: on our part, we will try to organize the activities of the opposition. we will make proposals to make the political debate in a democracy run as it should. we've seen it in history. isn't that dangerous?
mr. chairman, mr. vice chairman timmermans, i have to tell you something. concern for the rule of law, democracy and human rights should always be a concern for all countries, regardless of the government that rules them at any given moment. i am a polish member of parliament and i know that three quarters of poles support the union - a peaceful, open, united community. i know that the polish people do not deserve to be questioned about their faith and the hopes they place in the community. and it is not true that the poles are turning their backs on the union, as mr kamal has said; he is wrong. poles, on the other hand, have the right to live in a democratic state, respecting civil liberties, preserving continuity. they have a right to a sense of pride in their history. they have the right to live in a country where collective responsibility is not applied, where the law is not retroactive, where independent courts and social organizations operate. we must be prudent, moderate, dialogue and responsible. both the ruling party and the opposition.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr weidenholzer, i know that you are very interested in what is happening in poland, and you are following it, and you can probably see that the government, through the so-called national media, is notoriously insulting those who are fighting for law and freedom in poland. i would like to ask you, if you could speak directly to those who were out in the streets yesterday to defend the rule of law, what would you say to them?
mr. chairman, please! i have the honour to represent a party that had nothing to do with the initiation of the dispute over the constitutional tribunal when you were in power, in june last year, because of your illegal activities, or with the escalation of this dispute since then, but i know one thing: this is not about the tribunal, or the treaties, or least of all about human rights. if it were a question of human rights, mr timmermans would have reacted many days ago to what we have been hearing from france about a law which is intended to silence the websites which defend the life of the unborn. if it were about the constitutional court and constitutional democracy in poland, then president timmermans would remind all abortion enthusiasts that in poland, protection of life from conception is part of the constitutional order established by the constitutional court in a 1997 ruling, confirmed by a 2003 ruling, confirmed by a last year's ruling of the court, whose composition was not challenged. if it was the constitutional court. but this is about an attack on my country.
mr. chairman, please! i quote mr. legutka's words, because he perfectly portrayed the behavior of the current law and justice government. you don't listen to other people's reasons, you don't listen to the other side, you don't allow others to have a voice, you antagonize society, you are rapidly producing enemies, i add from each other both in poland and abroad. you have two enemies, ignorance and prejudice. pride always precedes failure. that's true, and i hope that the pis government will fall. your democracy is about defending the prosecutor of martial law, not about defending those who fought for that freedom and were in prison. to mr. kamal: the pis won democratically, but the poles did not give a democratic mandate to break the constitution and restrict freedom. and to the poles: dear ones, i have not heard anyone in this house criticizing poland and the poles. they always talk about our achievements with pride they criticize the rule of law and justice!
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms vallina, for her interesting and comprehensive report on the work of the committee on petitions in 2015. like its predecessors, the report bears witness to the breadth of issues that petitioners bring to the attention of the committee on petitions each year and to the committee’s efforts to ensure that the voices of those petitioners are heard. the commission agrees that the right to petition has to be a key element for our participatory democracy, in which the right of every citizen to play a direct part in the democratic life of the union is effectively protected. as my colleague, frans timmermans, stated in his last exchange of views with the committee in april, petitions are one of the few instruments where the institutions come into direct contact with citizens. at a time when europe is facing many challenges, such direct contacts with citizens are more important than ever. the citizens who turn to the committee for help feel in many cases that they have exhausted all other avenues. they are real people with real problems. if we are to have any chance of bridging the gap that seems to have opened up between european institutions and the public, it is crucial that we – and by ‘we’ i mean the commission and parliament – can demonstrate that we take citizens’ seriously and show them what solutions exist at european or at national level. as the statistics in the report make clear, the commission remains the committee on petitions’ principal partner when it comes to handling petitions. of the petitions that are not closed in the early stages of the procedure, nearly 90% are referred to the commission for an opinion. i am therefore pleased to have this opportunity to reaffirm the commission’s commitment to providing the committee on petitions with meaningful replies to each request for an opinion, and to do so in a timely manner. the commission also remains committed to sending its most competent officials to the committee’s meetings to ensure that the committee and the petitioners receive the latest information and proper explanations of the issues under discussion. this is perhaps the right moment to turn to one of the issues raised by you, ms vallina, in your report, namely the commission’s interpretation of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights. i know that this issue has been raised in previous reports and is one where many members of this house consider that the commission’s interpretation is unduly narrow. it is clear that the charter’s scope has its limitations. defined by the treaty, they result from the principle of conferral of powers, a cornerstone of the european union. however, as reflected in the report, the charter is one element of the architecture of fundamental rights protection in europe. it complements national systems for fundamental rights protection, but does not replace them. the commission shares your concerns about how to ensure that citizens’ expectations as regards the protection of their fundamental rights are upheld. the commission attaches particular importance to increasing individuals’ understanding of how they can avail themselves of their fundamental rights, and whom to approach to enforce them. it is crucial to dispel misunderstandings and avoid raising false expectations. a concrete step in this direction was the introduction last october, in the e-justice portal, of a fundamental rights page, which helps individuals seeking to enforce their fundamental rights to identify the competent national non—judicial bodies with a human rights remit. the commission will also make the best possible use of existing financial programmes to empower civil society organisations and human rights bodies, which work on raising awareness about the charter and ensuring its application at national level. let me thank ms vallina once again for her report. i look forward to hearing the views of honourable members.
on behalf of the s&d group. the subject of the 2015 annual report is the review of the work of the committee on petitions, which allows any citizen of the european union, acting individually or in association with others, to exercise at any time his or her right to lodge a complaint with the european parliament under article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the 2015 annual statistics show that the majority of petitioners turn to parliament for help on matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. last year, parliament received over 1400 petitions, a drop of as much as 47% compared to 2014. unfortunately, the report does not examine the reasons for this state of affairs. of the petitions received, 943 were considered admissible and 483 were considered inadmissible. the percentage of inadmissible petitions has decreased by more than 6% compared to 2014, while the percentage of petitions considered admissible has increased by almost 6%, which shows that citizens have a better understanding of our competences. the committee on petitions also managed to eliminate the existing delays in the examination of petitions in 2015. the european commission remains the largest partner of the committee on petitions in dealing with complaints that are not closed at an early stage of the procedure and that are almost 90% referred for consideration and opinion to the european commission. in 2015, the spanish petitioners were the most numerous, followed by italians, germans, romanians and poles. the rapporteur, ms ángela vallina, has produced a very good report, and i congratulate her and thank her for the effective cooperation.
the committee on petitions is the only committee in the european parliament that guarantees direct contact with citizens. it only takes one vote from a citizen or the president, in the form of an email or a letter, to petition, because the treaties on european union allow the european parliament to be consulted on various problems that citizens encounter in their daily lives, provided that the issues raised are within the scope of the european union's activities. every month we examine such petitions in the presence of the petitioners, and in this way, as members of parliament, we can learn about the difficulties in implementing eu law in the member states. we therefore work with the european commission, the council, the european ombudsman, the legal service and member state authorities at various levels. as a committee, we also organise public hearings and go on observation missions. in the context of the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions, i would like to highlight a few aspects. first, our priority should be to deal with petitions within a reasonable timeframe to avoid leaving petitions unresolved for too long. secondly, we should streamline the process of examining petitions by digitalising the procedure, making it easier for both members and the committee secretariat. and the last point is very important, because we must ensure that the issues under discussion are really european law and not a tool for political struggle. very often, political parties during election campaigns have tried to use the commission as a tool in the struggle for political votes in recent years. we must say clearly and firmly no. we do not agree to this. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer. – well, i have to agree that if you really believe in something, then nothing can stand in your way to achieve this goal. with the petitions committee the situation is even simpler because you do not have to gather additional signatures; you do not have to establish any organisation. just one voice, one e-mail or a regular letter to our committee is needed and we look into the issues. so you do not even have to have larger support. one voice is enough for our committee to look into the issue.
madam president! the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights. any citizen may address the european parliament with a problem which he or she is facing in his or her daily life, if the problem falls within the scope of the european union's activities. the right to petition not only builds citizens' trust in the european union, but also is an important source of knowledge for meps. knowledge that allows us to improve legislation. the analysis of the problems reported also allows the identification of difficulties in the implementation of union law in the member states. in order to achieve these objectives, citizens' awareness of the right to petition and the means of petitioning must be widely disseminated, but equally important is the effectiveness of the resolution of the problems raised. cooperation with the petitions committees of the national parliaments is therefore essential. unfortunately, not all national parliaments have set up petition committees. the absence of such a system makes it difficult to forward petitions that do not fall within the scope of the european union's activities. i therefore ask the members of parliament representing these countries to get involved in setting up a committee on petitions in their national parliaments. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. no, not at all. it is one thing for a member to work individually, but quite another to lodge a complaint with a body such as parliament. i therefore do not consider it to be a bureaucratic body, especially since the achievements of the committee on petitions - measurable achievements which sometimes even result in changes in the law in a member state - prove that it is an effective instrument.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. buddhism is an integral part of tibetan identity, and so recent reports of restrictions on religious freedom in the region are deeply troubling. at the request of the government in beijing, the demolition of the largest tibetan buddhist study center in larung gar, sichuan, has begun. the chinese authorities are threatening to completely demolish the facility if it does not halve the number of monks and nuns as part of a so-called restructuring of buddhist centers. about a thousand people have been displaced so far. in protest against the destruction of tibetan culture and religion, monks have increasingly committed dramatic self-immolations. during chinese rule, most of the more than 6,250 monasteries in tibet were demolished. we expect the chinese authorities to stop the unjustified demolition of larung gar and the eviction of its residents, and to restore respect for religious freedom in accordance with international human rights standards. we rarely bring the issue of tibet to the european parliament when human rights violations are commonplace. i hope that the international community will do more to restore respect for law and civil liberties in tibet.
mr. postle, what are you doing? i shall pass your opinion on to the bureau of the european parliament.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (amending the suspension mechanism). i believe that the compromise reached in the negotiations on the amendments serves to strengthen the strategy related to migration policy. the union's visa policy is a core policy area of the european union with implications for both external action and internal security. it is necessary to amend the suspension mechanism for visa procedures in order to make it more efficient and flexible. this will allow the eu to respond to specific circumstances resulting from a sudden and significant increase in the inflow of third-country nationals staying illegally in the eu, as well as unjustified asylum applications and rejected readmission applications. in order to guarantee respect for the rights of third-country nationals and the rules of the common visa policy, a robust set of guarantees should be established, as well as a system of reports and statistics provided by the european agency and by the relevant law enforcement authorities.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this proposal is to strengthen the suspension mechanism by making it easier for member states to notify circumstances leading to a possible suspension and by enabling the commission to trigger the mechanism on its own initiative. the agreement reached reflects a solution between the council and parliament based on a three-step approach. 1) the european commission will adopt an implementing act on the temporary suspension of the exemption from the visa requirement for certain categories of third country nationals for a period of 9 months. if the circumstances persist during that period, the commission shall adopt a delegated act temporarily suspending the exemption from the visa requirement for all nationals of the third country concerned for a period of 18 months. before the expiry of the validity of the adopted delegated act, the european commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council, which may be accompanied by a legislative proposal to amend this regulation in order to transfer the reference to the third country concerned from annex ii to annex i. i support the need for a suspension mechanism to be in place and strengthened in order to maintain confidence in future and existing agreements liberalising visa rules. such a standstill clause is also important because it allows for an efficient response to any emergency situation and does not require waiting for a solution in the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to strengthen the suspension mechanism by making it easier for member states to notify circumstances leading to a possible suspension and by enabling the commission to trigger the mechanism on its own initiative. the need to maintain and strengthen the suspension mechanism in order to maintain confidence in future and existing agreements liberalising visa rules is worth supporting. such a standstill clause is also important because it allows for an efficient response to any emergency situation and does not require waiting for a solution in the legislative process. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft implementing directive which aims to amend annexes iv to council directive 2000/29/ec. i believe that stricter controls on citrus imports will increase the risk of complaints to the wto and impose disproportionate and unjustified requirements on exporting countries where there have been no problems so far. in addition, the proposed changes, which aim to ensure more rigorous controls, go beyond the recommendations of efsa (european food safety authority). the sensible approach to protecting the market for citrus processing is to act by means of exceptional measures rather than a general tightening of measures. by the proposed amendments concerning the use of the thaumatotibia leucotreta freezing process only, the directive will lead to the suspension of research and prevent the use of new scientific processes.
in writing. ‒ tighter import controls on citrus fruits increase the risk of wto litigation and impose disproportionate and unjustified requirements on exporting countries that have not previously had any problems. the proposed changes also go beyond the recommendations of efsa. in the case of ongoing acquisitions involving third countries, this problem should be addressed through exceptional measures rather than through a general tightening of measures. as regards the restriction to the use of the freezing process alone, it is particularly mandatory and would prevent the study and application of new scientific processes. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ given the plight of women affected by the adverse effects of thalidomide, i voted in favour of a resolution guaranteeing support for victims of the drug. thalidomide was used to treat nausea in pregnant women, as well as headaches, insomnia and colds in the late 1950s and 1960s. it caused deformities in the foetus, particularly in the form of shortened limbs or the absence of limbs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of a public authority. the seriousness of the problem is underlined by the fact that this case was one of the main reasons for the adoption of eu rules on pharmaceutical industry supervision. i fully support the resolution calling for the coordination of actions to support victims in their compensation efforts, the strengthening of actions in individual countries (such as germany or spain) and the establishment of a european support programme, and calling on the company producing the medicine (grünenthal gmbh) to admit fault and pay the compensation due.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the victims of thalidomide, a drug prescribed to pregnant women in the 1950s that caused foetal developmental disorders resulting in, among other things, no arms in children born later, sheds new light on the victims of this once poorly understood drug. they live not only in france but also in germany, sweden, the united kingdom, spain, italy and other eu countries. the resolution recalls the effects of thalidomide and the responsibilities of states in this regard. calls on the member states to provide adequate legal treatment and adequate social and medical care to thalidomide victims, many of whom live in poverty and without the necessary assistance; i believe that the history of thalidomide use should be taken into account when approving procedures for safety testing and marketing of medicinal products; the issues of risk and liability must be clearly defined. this history should also help to develop research and education on the physiology and pathology of pregnancy, to increase access to prenatal and perinatal healthcare, and to disseminate knowledge on pregnancy prevention so that such stories do not happen again in the future.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide was used to treat nausea in pregnant women, as well as headaches, insomnia and colds in the late 1950s and 1960s. the drug was used for several years before serious side effects were observed. it caused deformities in the foetus, particularly in the form of shortened limbs or the absence of limbs. this has happened in many member states and victims are still not adequately protected financially to cope with the rising costs of treatment. this case was one of the main reasons for the adoption of eu legislation on pharmaceutical industry supervision. the resolution calls for coordination of actions to support victims in their compensation efforts, for improvements in national actions (i.e. germany or spain), for the establishment of a european support programme and calls on the company producing the drug (grünenthal gmbh) to admit fault and pay appropriate compensation. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide was used to treat nausea in pregnant women, as well as headaches, insomnia and colds in the late 1950s and 1960s. the drug was used for several years before serious side effects were observed. it caused deformities in the foetus, particularly in the form of shortened limbs or the absence of limbs. this has happened in many member states and victims are still not adequately protected financially to cope with the rising costs of treatment. the resolution calls for coordination of actions to support victims in their compensation efforts, for improvements in national actions (i.e. germany or spain), for the establishment of a european support programme and calls on the company producing the drug (grünenthal gmbh) to admit fault and pay appropriate compensation. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the paediatric regulation, which entered into force on 26 january 2007. i believe that this is necessary in view of the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the regulation, such as delays in clinical trials, paediatric oncology or the low number of new medicines authorised for marketing. the review of the regulation should give due weight to models of priority of medicinal products, earlier and easier clinical trials and more effective incentives to stimulate research, and serve the objectives of paediatric drug development.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the 2015 annual report on the results of the committee on petitions' deliberations, due to differences and lack of consensus on the content of the report. the committee's work programme is not linked to the european commission's legislative work programme, but is drawn up by citizens exercising their right to petition parliament and to share their concerns about specific areas of eu policy and legislation. i believe that the report should be amended in order to remove the inconsistencies in the opinion. the failure to incorporate the amendments submitted by ecr experts contributed to the negative assessment of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the draft resolution on international aviation agreements, recognising the validity of the solutions proposed. the increasing importance of the air safety agreements with japan and china and the air communication agreements with china, turkey, mexico, the six member states of the gulf cooperation council, armenia and asean requires the development of negotiating guidelines before the start of negotiations. i believe that the role and commitment of the european parliament is such that it should be informed immediately and fully at all stages of the negotiations. from the very beginning of the procedure, parliament should receive regular and, where necessary, confidential full information on the procedure under way at all stages of the negotiations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the union's customs policy is a major challenge for the commission and the european union as a whole. on the one hand, customs policy is intended to combat mainly illicit trade, organised crime, fraud and terrorism, while at the same time facilitating legal trade and providing citizens and businesses with a sense of security. the resolution calls for the eu's customs policy to be simplified, streamlined, made coherent and fair, while ensuring that customs duties are effective and uniformly enforced. the idea is that in the delegated acts to the customs code, the european commission should only propose proportionate rules that are intended to facilitate legitimate trade and the development of european competitiveness on a global scale, and not be additional administrative barriers. here are two examples of how these barriers are created. financial guarantee requirements for so-called authorised aeo's who already follow strict rules according to many companies these requirements should be abolished. furthermore, simplified customs procedures for low value consignments at import and export should be maintained. the european commission, on the other hand, proposes to withdraw the existing customs simplifications. this is contrary to the objectives of the digital single market to enable consumers and businesses to have better access to goods and services. the ecr group therefore supports the text of the resolution, which is intended to encourage the european commission to engage more closely with the business community and to work together to create a modern, coordinated, transparent, fair, consistent, predictable and secure eu customs code for citizens and businesses.
